
1. Ann Surg. 2015 Mar;261(3):547-52. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000000551.

Factors Affecting Sentinel Lymph Node Identification Rate After Neoadjuvant
Chemotherapy for Breast Cancer Patients Enrolled in ACOSOG Z1071 (Alliance).

Boughey JC(1), Suman VJ, Mittendorf EA, Ahrendt GM, Wilke LG, Taback B, Leitch
AM, Flippo-Morton TS, Kuerer HM, Bowling M, Hunt KK; Alliance for Clinical Trials
in Oncology.

Author information: 
(1)*Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN †Alliance Statistics and Data Center, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, MN ‡MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX §University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA ¶University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI ‖Columbia University Medical
Center, New York, NY **University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
TX ††Carolinas Medical Center, Charlotte, NC; and ‡‡Indiana University Medical
Center, Indianapolis, IN.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate factors affecting sentinel lymph node (SLN) identification
after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) in patients with initial node-positive
breast cancer.
BACKGROUND: SLN surgery is increasingly used for nodal staging after NAC and
optimal technique for SLN identification is important.
METHODS: The American College of Surgeons Oncology Group Z1071 prospective trial 
enrolled clinical T0-4, N1-2, M0 breast cancer patients. After NAC, SLN surgery
and axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) were planned. Multivariate logistic
regression modeling assessing factors influencing SLN identification was
performed.
RESULTS: Of 756 patients enrolled, 34 women withdrew, 21 were ineligible, 12
underwent ALND only, and 689 had SLN surgery attempted. At least 1 SLN was
identified in 639 patients (92.7%: 95% CI: 90.5%-94.6%). Among factors evaluated,
mapping technique was the only factor found to impact SLN identification; with
use of blue dye alone increasing the likelihood of failure to identify the SLN
relative to using radiolabeled colloid +/- blue dye (P = 0.006; OR = 3.82; 95%
CI: 1.47-9.92). The SLN identification rate was 78.6% with blue dye alone; 91.4% 
with radiolabeled colloid and 93.8% with dual mapping agents. Patient factors
(age, body mass index), tumor factors (clinical T or N stage), pathologic nodal
response to chemotherapy, site of tracer injection, and length of chemotherapy
treatment did not significantly affect the SLN identification rate.
CONCLUSIONS: The SLN identification rate after NAC was higher when mapping was
performed using radiolabeled colloid alone or with blue dye compared with blue
dye alone. Optimal tracer use is important to ensure successful identification of
SLN(s) after NAC.

PMCID: PMC4324533 [Available on 2015-06-01]
PMID: 25664534  [PubMed - in process]


2. Basic Res Cardiol. 2015 Mar;110(2):467. doi: 10.1007/s00395-015-0467-8. Epub 2015
Feb 5.

Remote ischemic conditioning and cardioprotection: a systematic review and
meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials.

Le Page S(1), Bejan-Angoulvant T, Angoulvant D, Prunier F.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Cardiologie, CHU Angers, Remodelage et Thrombose, EA 3860
Cardioprotection, L'UNAM Université, Université d'Angers, 49933, Angers Cedex 9, 
France.

Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) represents an innovative cardioprotective
method that has been investigated in numerous clinical studies providing
miscellaneous results. This systematic review and meta-analysis sought to assess 
RIC-induced effects on myocardial injury biomarkers and clinical outcomes in
clinical situations at risk of myocardial ischemia/reperfusion damage. PubMed and
Cochrane databases were searched for randomized clinical trials testing any RIC
protocol versus a control in a situation or procedure at risk of cardiac
ischemia/reperfusion damage, including coronary angioplasty and cardiac or major 
vascular surgery. Data were collected from publications reporting biological
markers of myocardial injury or clinical events, including major adverse
cardiovascular and cerebral events (MACCE), all-cause mortality, myocardial
infarction incidence, and repeat revascularization. Standardized mean difference 
(SMD) (continuous outcomes) and odds ratios (OR) (dichotomous outcomes) were
compared between groups. Heterogeneity was investigated by means of meta-analysis
regression. A total of 53 articles (44 studies) were identified by the search,
with 5,317 patients included in the systematic meta-analysis. RIC significantly
reduced troponin area under curve (AUC) (SMD -0.27, 95 % confidence interval
(CI): [-0.36, -0.18]; p < 0.01) and troponin peak (SMD: -0.22, 95 % CI: [-0.30,
-0.15]; p < 0.01). The same reduction was observed with creatine kinase MB
(CK-MB) AUC and peak. Long-term MACCE and all-cause mortality were significantly 
lower in the RIC group (OR: 0.42, 95 % CI [0.28, 0.64]; p < 0.01 vs. OR: 0.27,
95 % CI [0.13, 0.58]; p < 0.01, respectively), as was myocardial infarction
incidence (OR: 0.54, 95 % CI [0.40, 0.73]; p < 0.01). We observed no difference
regarding repeat revascularization. RIC appears to be an effective method for
reducing ischemia/reperfusion myocardial injury, and our findings suggest that it
may reduce long-term clinical events.

PMID: 25653117  [PubMed - in process]


3. Behav Ther. 2015 Mar;46(2):206-17. doi: 10.1016/j.beth.2014.09.007. Epub 2014 Oct
17.

Clinical and cost-effectiveness of therapist-guided internet-delivered cognitive 
behavior therapy for older adults with symptoms of anxiety: a randomized
controlled trial.

Dear BF(1), Zou JB(2), Ali S(3), Lorian CN(2), Johnston L(2), Sheehan J(2),
Staples LG(2), Gandy M(2), Fogliati VJ(2), Klein B(4), Titov N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Macquarie University. Electronic address: blake.dear@mq.edu.au. (2)Macquarie
University. (3)University of York. (4)Federation University Australia, National
Institute for Mental Health Research, The Australian National University, and
Swinburne University of Technology.

There is preliminary support for internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy
(iCBT) as a way of improving access to treatment among older adults with anxiety.
The aim of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) was to examine the efficacy,
long-term outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of an iCBT program for adults over
60years of age with anxiety. Successful applicants were randomly allocated to
either the treatment group (n=35) or the waitlist control group (n=37). The
online treatment course was delivered over 8weeks and provided with brief weekly 
contact with a clinical psychologist via telephone or secure email. Eighty-four
percent of participants completed the iCBT course within the 8weeks and 90%
provided data at posttreatment. Significantly lower scores on measures of anxiety
(Cohen's d=1.43; 95% CI: 0.89 - 1.93) and depression (Cohen's d=1.79; 95% CI:
1.21 - 2.32) were found among the treatment group compared to the control group
at posttreatment. These lower scores were maintained at 3-month and 12-month
follow-up and the treatment group rated the iCBT treatment as acceptable. The
treatment group had slightly higher costs ($92.2; 95% CI: $38.7 to $149.2) and
Quality-Adjusted Life-Years (QALYs=0.010; 95% CI: 0.003 to 0.018) than the
control group at posttreatment and the intervention was found to have a greater
than 95% probability of being cost-effective. The results support iCBT as an
efficacious and cost-effective treatment option for older adults with symptoms of
anxiety.TRIAL REGISTRATION:
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry:
ACTRN12611000929909;
https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?ACTRN=1261100092990
9.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25645169  [PubMed - in process]


4. Behav Ther. 2015 Mar;46(2):193-205. doi: 10.1016/j.beth.2014.09.008. Epub 2014
Oct 22.

Clinical and cost-effectiveness of therapist-guided internet-delivered cognitive 
behavior therapy for older adults with symptoms of depression: a randomized
controlled trial.

Titov N(1), Dear BF(2), Ali S(3), Zou JB(1), Lorian CN(1), Johnston L(1), Terides
MD(1), Kayrouz R(1), Klein B(4), Gandy M(1), Fogliati VJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Macquarie University. (2)Macquarie University. Electronic address:
blake.dear@mq.edu.au. (3)University of York. (4)Federation University Australia, 
The Australian National University, and Swinburne University of Technology.

Depression is a common and significant health problem among older adults.
Unfortunately, while effective psychological treatments exist, few older adults
access treatment. The aim of the present randomized controlled trial (RCT) was to
examine the efficacy, long-term outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of a
therapist-guided internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy (iCBT)
intervention for Australian adults over 60years of age with symptoms of
depression. Participants were randomly allocated to either a treatment group
(n=29) or a delayed-treatment waitlist control group (n=25). Twenty-seven
treatment group participants started the iCBT treatment and 70% completed the
treatment within the 8-week course, with 85% of participants providing data at
posttreatment. Treatment comprised an online 5-lesson iCBT course with brief
weekly contact with a clinical psychologist, delivered over 8weeks. The primary
outcome measure was the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 Item (PHQ-9), a measure of
symptoms and severity of depression. Significantly lower scores on the PHQ-9
(Cohen's d=2.08; 95% CI: 1.38 - 2.72) and on a measure of anxiety (Generalized
Anxiety Disorder-7 Item) (Cohen's d=1.22; 95% CI: 0.61 - 1.79) were observed in
the treatment group compared to the control group at posttreatment. The treatment
group maintained these lower scores at the 3-month and 12-month follow-up time
points and the iCBT treatment was rated as acceptable by participants. The
treatment group had slightly higher Quality-Adjusted Life-Years (QALYs) than the 
control group at posttreatment (estimate: 0.012; 95% CI: 0.004 to 0.020) and,
while being a higher cost (estimate $52.9l 95% CI: -23.8 to 128.2), the
intervention was cost-effective according to commonly used willingness-to-pay
thresholds in Australia. The results support the potential efficacy and
cost-effectiveness of therapist-guided iCBT as a treatment for older adults with 
symptoms of depression.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian and New Zealand Clinical
Trials Registry: ACTRN12611000927921;
https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=343384.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25645168  [PubMed - in process]


5. Behav Ther. 2015 Mar;46(2):156-165. doi: 10.1016/j.beth.2014.09.014. Epub 2014
Oct 13.

Implications of RDoC for the Research and Practice of Psychotherapy.

Hershenberg R(1), Goldfried MR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Mental Illness Research, Education and Clinical Center at Philadelphia VA
Medical Center, and University of Pennsylvania. Electronic address:
rhersh@mail.med.upenn.edu. (2)Stony Brook University.

The field of psychotherapy is at an important juncture. Recent changes in the
field include (a) the skeptical reception of the fifth edition of the Diagnostic 
and Statistical Manual and (b) NIMH's prioritization of an alternative
classification system to guide translational and intervention research. Moreover,
(c) the field continues to be held accountable to governmental agencies and
third-party payers to demonstrate its empirical basis. Thus, psychological
research as it relates to the practice of psychotherapy is at a crossroads. In
this article, we provide a brief overview of several generations of psychotherapy
outcome research, including the consequences that followed in the 1980s as
psychotherapy research moved toward randomized controlled trials for clinical
disorders. We delineate the inherent strengths and limitations of this movement
and address how the NIMH has recently responded with the Research Domain Criteria
(RDoC). We then address philosophical and practical implications of the emphasis 
on a neuroscientific conceptualization of psychological problems. Finally, we
discuss opportunities for a next generation of convergent science that
incorporates, rather than replaces, psychosocial variables across stages of
translational research and treatment development.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25645165  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


6. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2015 Mar;28(1):22-31. doi:
10.1016/j.beha.2014.11.002. Epub 2014 Nov 11.

More is better: Combination therapies for myelodysplastic syndromes.

Ornstein MC(1), Mukherjee S(2), Sekeres MA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Leukemia Program, Department of Hematologic Oncology and Blood Disorders,
Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute, 9500 Euclid Avenue, NA10, Cleveland,
OH 44195, USA. Electronic address: ornstem@ccf.org. (2)Leukemia Program,
Department of Hematologic Oncology and Blood Disorders, Cleveland Clinic Taussig 
Cancer Institute, 9500 Euclid Avenue, NA10, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. Electronic 
address: mukhers2@ccf.org. (3)Leukemia Program, Department of Hematologic
Oncology and Blood Disorders, Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute, 9500
Euclid Avenue, NA10, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. Electronic address:
sekerem@ccf.org.

The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a heterogenous collection of clonal
hematopoietic malignancies that exist as a subgroup of the myeloid neoplasms as
classified by the World Health Organization (WHO). They are characterized by
ineffective hematopoiesis, subsequent cytopenias, transformation to acute myeloid
leukemia (AML), and poor overall survival. There are currently three FDA-approved
medications for MDS; lenalidomide, azacitidine, and decitabine. The role of these
agents is to diminish the clinical impact of MDS and delay its progression to
AML. However, despite known results with these monotherapies, recent clinical
trials with a variety of combinations for MDS have demonstrated promising
results. These trials include combinations of hypomethylating agents, histone
deacetylase inhibitors, growth factors, and chemotherapy among others. In this
paper we review the current literature on combination therapies in MDS, analyze
on-going and concluded trials, and suggest future possibilities for combination
strategies in MDS.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659727  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


7. Cardiol Young. 2015 Mar;25(3):424-37. doi: 10.1017/S1047951114002133. Epub 2015
Jan 20.

BNP in children with congenital cardiac disease: is there now sufficient evidence
for its routine use?

Cantinotti M(1), Walters HL(2), Crocetti M(1), Marotta M(1), Murzi B(1), Clerico 
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Fondazione Toscana G. Monasterio,Massa and Pisa,Italy. (2)2Department of
Cardiovascular Surgery,Children's Hospital of Michigan,Wayne State University
School of Medicine,Detroit,Michigan,United States of America.

Interest in brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic 
peptide (NT-proBNP) in the management of children with CHD has increased. There
are, however, no current guidelines for their routine use. The aim of this review
article is to provide an update on the data regarding the use of BNP/NT-proBNP in
the evaluation and surgical treatment of children with CHD. BNP/NT-proBNP levels 
in children with CHD vary substantially according to age, laboratory assay
methods, and the specific haemodynamics associated with the individual congenital
heart lesion. The accuracy of BNP/NT-proBNP as supplemental markers in the
integrated screening, diagnosis, management, and follow-up of CHD has been
established. In particular, the use of BNP/NT-proBNP as a prognostic indicator in
paediatric cardiac surgery has been widely demonstrated, as well as its role in
the subsequent follow-up of surgical patients. Most of the data, however, are
derived from single-centre retrospective studies using multivariable analysis;
prospective, randomised clinical trials designed to evaluate the clinical utility
and cost-effectiveness of routine BNP/NT-proBNP use in CHD are lacking. The
results of well-designed, prospective clinical trials should assist in
formulating guidelines and expert consensus recommendations for its use in
patients with CHD. Finally, the use of new point-of-care testing methods that use
less invasive sampling techniques - capillary blood specimens - may contribute to
a more widespread use of the BNP assay, especially in neonates and infants, as
well as contribute to the development of screening programmes for CHD using this 
biomarker.

PMID: 25601330  [PubMed - in process]


8. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2015 Mar;18(2):202-6. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0000000000000146.

Should enteral nutrition be started in the first week of critical illness?

Martindale RG(1), Warren M.

Author information: 
(1)aDivision of General Surgery, Hospital Nutrition Services, Oregon Health and
Science University bDepartment of Surgery, Oregon Health and Science University
cPortland VA Healthcare Center, Portland, Oregon, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review the mechanistic evidence for early enteral nutrition
in critically ill patients within the first week of ICU admission.
RECENT FINDINGS: There is a lack of recent large randomized controlled trials
showing clinically important outcome benefits related to early enteral nutrition.
Most supporting studies are based on the animal models, and explore mechanisms of
benefit related to gut immunity and oxidative stress. In addition, the impact of 
nutrient deprivation on the microbiome recently shown in a human trial is
compelling. Large randomized controlled clinical trials have emerged in the last 
2 years, however, comparing minimal enteral nutrition therapy and enteral
nutrition versus parenteral nutrition. They call into question the low quality of
clinical evidence and the widespread support for early enteral nutrition as a
primary recommendation. As a result, the questions of whether or not enteral
nutrition should be initiated in the first week versus standard of care or
parenteral nutrition and how clinicians justify this recommendation are raised.
SUMMARY: Despite the wide range of quality in the current clinical outcomes
evidence, early enteral nutrition within the first week of ICU admission,
delivered to the appropriate patient, promotes gut-mediated immunity, lowers
metabolic response to stress, maintains microbial diversity, and improves
clinical outcomes versus standard of care or parenteral nutrition therapy.

PMID: 25635598  [PubMed - in process]


9. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2015 Mar;18(2):193-201. doi:
10.1097/MCO.0000000000000148.

Vitamin C supplementation in the critically ill patient.

Berger MM(1), Oudemans-van Straaten HM.

Author information: 
(1)aAdult Intensive Care and Burns, University Hospital CHUV, Lausanne,
Switzerland bDepartment of Intensive Care, VU University Medical Center,
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Vitamin C is not only an essential nutrient involved in many
anabolic pathways, but also an important player of the endogenous antioxidant
defense. Low plasma levels are very common in critical care patients and may
reflect severe deficiency states.
RECENT FINDINGS: Vitamin C scavenges reactive oxygen species such as superoxide
and peroxynitrite in plasma and cells (preventing damage to proteins, lipids and 
DNA), prevents occludin dephosphorylation and loosening of the tight junctions.
Ascorbate improves microcirculatory flow impairment by inhibiting
tumor-necrosis-factor-induced intracellular adhesion molecule expression, which
triggers leukocyte stickiness and slugging. Clinical trials in sepsis, trauma and
major burns testing high-dose vitamin C show clinical benefit. Restoration of
normal plasma levels in inflammatory patients requires the administration of
3 g/day for several days, which is 30 times the daily recommended dose.
SUMMARY: The recent research on the modulation of oxidative stress and
endothelial protection offer interesting therapeutic perspectives, based on the
biochemical evidence, with limited or even absent side-effects.

PMID: 25635594  [PubMed - in process]


10. Curr Opin Hematol. 2015 Mar;22(2):123-31. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000119.

Is it time to change conventional consolidation chemotherapy for acute myeloid
leukemia in CR1?

Wolach O(1), Stone RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Choosing the most appropriate postremission therapy (PRT) for 
a patient with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in first complete remission remains a
challenging task. Factors such as risk for disease relapse, nonrelapse mortality 
associated with different PRT approaches, donor availability, prospects for
salvage should disease relapse, and patient preference all affect PRT choice.
RECENT FINDINGS: New genetic markers refine AML risk stratification and identify 
patients within the 'classical' risk groups who may benefit from transplant-based
or chemotherapy-based PRT. The use of minimal residual disease in first remission
to guide PRT choice and the application of novel, targeted therapies have the
potential to alter PRT approaches across AML risk groups. The advent of
alternative donor sources, use of reduced intensity regimens, and improved
supportive care all affect the availability and safety of transplant-based PRT
and challenge the relevance of the older legacy 'donor/no-donor' genetically
randomized trials.
SUMMARY: Genetic risk assessment, monitoring of minimal residual disease in first
remission, use of targeted agents, and the newer transplant strategies all have
the potential to 'personalize' PRT choice in the AML patient. The clinical value 
of these novel interventions awaits validation in prospective, risk-adapted
clinical trials.

PMID: 25594168  [PubMed - in process]


11. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2015 Mar;10(2):123-7. doi: 10.1097/COH.0000000000000139.

Application of gene-editing technologies to HIV-1.

Drake MJ(1), Bates P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review will highlight some of the recent advances in
genome engineering with applications for both clinical and basic science
investigations of HIV-1.
RECENT FINDINGS: Over the last year, the field of HIV cure research has seen
major breakthroughs with the success of the first phase I clinical trial
involving gene editing of CCR5 in patient-derived CD4 T cells. This first human
use of gene-editing technology was accomplished using zinc finger nucleases
(ZFNs). Zinc finger nucleases and the advent of additional tools for genome
engineering, including transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENS)
and the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/Cas9
system, have made gene editing remarkably simple and affordable. Here we will
discuss the different gene-editing technologies, the use of gene editing in HIV
research over the past year, and potential applications of gene editing for both 
in-vitro and in-vivo studies.
SUMMARY: Genome-engineering technologies have rapidly progressed over the past
few years such that these systems can be easily applied in any laboratory for a
variety of purposes. For HIV-1, upcoming clinical trials will determine if gene
editing can provide the long-awaited functional cure. In addition, manipulation
of host genomes, whether in vivo or in vitro, can facilitate development of
better animal models and culture methods for studying HIV-1 transmission,
pathogenesis, and virus-host interactions.

PMID: 25612322  [PubMed - in process]


12. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2015 Mar;24(2):183-92. doi:
10.1097/MNH.0000000000000098.

Comparison of novel oral anticoagulants versus vitamin K antagonists in patients 
with chronic kidney disease.

Harel Z(1), Sood MM, Perl J.

Author information: 
(1)aDivision of Nephrology, St Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, and The
Keenan Research Centre in the Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St Michael's
Hospital, University of Toronto bOttawa Hospital Research Institute, The Ottawa
Hospital, Civic Campus, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs) including apixaban,
dabigatran and rivaroxaban have been approved by international regulatory
agencies to prevent venous thromboembolism as well as treat atrial fibrillation
and venous thromboembolism in individuals with chronic kidney disease (CKD).
However, alterations in their metabolism in the setting of CKD may impact their
efficacy and lead to an increased risk of bleeding. This review summarizes the
current literature on the efficacy and safety of these agents in individuals with
moderate CKD.
RECENT FINDINGS: In clinical trials, the use of the NOACs in patients with
moderate CKD has demonstrated efficacy and safety similar to those seen with
vitamin K antagonists. However, no universal reversal agent for the anticoagulant
effect of the NOACs exists in the setting of bleeding. Limited data have
demonstrated that hemodialysis has been effectively used to aid in reversing the 
effects of dabigatran, and the use of prothrombin complex concentrate has also
been used for serious and major adverse bleeding events with some success.
SUMMARY: As the use of the NOACs in patients with CKD increases, it will be
important to monitor their safety, and clinicians who prescribe them should
carefully monitor kidney function and recognize the potential for adverse
effects.

PMID: 25636144  [PubMed - in process]


13. Curr Opin Oncol. 2015 Mar;27(2):79-86. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000166.

Novel angiogenesis inhibitors in nonsmall cell lung cancer.

Reinmuth N(1), Heigener D, Reck M.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Thoracic Oncology, LungenClinic Großhansdorf, Grosshansdorf
bAirway Research Center North, German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Heidelberg,
Germany.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The fact that growth and spread of tumours are dependent on
angiogenesis has led to the investigation of the role of antiangiogenic agents in
the therapeutic strategies for thoracic tumours such as nonsmall cell lung cancer
(NSCLC). This review summarizes and evaluates the recent developments in this
field.
RECENT FINDINGS: Bevacizumab, an antivascular endothelial growth factor antibody,
has been approved for the treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC of
nonsquamous histology in combination with a platinum-containing chemotherapy.
Like in other cancer entities, the antiangiogenic concept in NSCLC comprises
maintenance therapy with the antiangiogenic compound until disease progression.
Moreover, over the last years, new antiangiogenic agents have been tested in
clinical trials in NSCLC patients. Recent trials have demonstrated the efficacy
of antiangiogenic agents in combination with docetaxel in the second-line
setting.
SUMMARY: These studies - together with experiences from other cancer entities -
have revived the field of antiangiogenic treatment in lung cancer.

PMID: 25602682  [PubMed - in process]


14. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2015 Mar;28(2):155-64. doi: 10.1097/YCO.0000000000000137.

Accelerating Alzheimer's research through 'natural' animal models.

Braidy N(1), Poljak A, Jayasena T, Mansour H, Inestrosa NC, Sachdev PS.

Author information: 
(1)aCentre for Healthy Brain Ageing, School of Psychiatry, University of New
South Wales bSchool of Medical Sciences, University of New South Wales
cBioanalytical Mass Spectrophotometry Facility, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia dFaculty of Biological Sciences, Centre for
Ageing and Regeneration (CARE), P. Catholic University of Chile, Santiago,
Republic of Chile eNeuropsychiatric Institute, Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Alzheimer's disease is a complex multifactorial age-related
neurodegenerative disorder. Current transgenic animal models do not fully
recapitulate human Alzheimer's disease at the molecular, cellular and behavioural
levels. This review aims to address the clinical relevance of using
'physiologically' aged rats, dogs and Octodon degus, as more representative
'natural' ecologically valid models to elucidate mechanistic aspects of
Alzheimer's disease, and for the development of therapeutic agents to attenuate
age-related cognitive decline.
RECENT FINDINGS: Aged rats, dogs and O. degus decline cognitively and ultimately 
develop Alzheimer's disease-like symptoms in response to the natural ageing
process. Aged rats provide a tractable and popular model to examine the
neurobiological basis underlying cognitive decline with age, but they do not
develop Alzheimer's disease pathology. Progressive accumulation of abnormal
amyloid-beta in extracellular plaques and surrounding cerebral vasculature is a
common feature in human Alzheimer's disease, aged canine model and most nonhuman 
primates. Interestingly, the O. degus develops amyloid-beta deposits,
neurofibrillary tangles containing hyperphosphorylated tau protein, altered
cholinergic transmission and cognitive deficits analogous to those observed in
Alzheimer's disease. Natural animal models better represent the full
pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and are not only a viable alternative to
transgenic models, but also are arguably the preferable model.
SUMMARY: 'Natural' models are useful to elucidate the neurobiological basis of
Alzheimer's disease and develop effective therapeutic strategies that can be
translated into human clinical trials.

PMID: 25602247  [PubMed - in process]


15. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2015 Mar;28(2):102-6. doi: 10.1097/YCO.0000000000000135.

Cognitive and behavioural aspects of Prader-Willi syndrome.

Rice LJ(1), Einfeld SL.

Author information: 
(1)aFaculty of Health Science bBrain and Mind Research Institute cCentre for
Disability Research and Policy, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To provide a review of the recent advances in the diagnosis
and treatment of psychiatric disorders in Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS).
RECENT FINDINGS: Research in the last 12 months has provided a descriptive
prognosis of psychosis in PWS and highlighted the possible genes associated with 
the increased risk of psychosis for those with maternal uniparental disomy
(mUPD). Several studies investigating social and communication skills have shown 
people with PWS to have difficulty with core, receptive and expressive language
skills, interpreting emotional valence in faces, playing with children of their
own age, understanding personal space and a developmental delay in the theory of 
mind. These social and communication deficits are often more pronounced in those 
with mUPD. Two recent clinical trials of oxytocin provide mixed results and
highlight the need for an improved understanding of the neurobiological
characteristics of the PWS brain. A recent pilot study suggests N-acetylcysteine 
may be a viable treatment for skin picking.
SUMMARY: Recent advances have contributed to our understanding of the emotional
and behavioural problems associated with PWS, and provided directions for further
research.

PMID: 25599341  [PubMed - in process]


16. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2015 Mar;27(2):164-9. doi: 10.1097/BOR.0000000000000146.

New medications in development for the treatment of hyperuricemia of gout.

Diaz-Torné C(1), Perez-Herrero N, Perez-Ruiz F.

Author information: 
(1)aDivision of Rheumatology, Hospital Santa Creu i San Pau, Barcelona
bBiomedical Sciences School, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, Madrid cDivision of
Rheumatology, Hospital Universitario Cruces, and BioCruces Health Research
Institute, Vizcaya, Spain.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To update recent developments in medications targeting
hyperuricemia, but not including medications recently labelled in the European
Union and the United States.
RECENT FINDINGS: A new xanthine oxidase inhibitor, Topiloric (Fujiyakuhin Co.,
Ltd. Japan) Uriadec (Sanwa Kagaku Kenkyusho Co., Ltd. Japan), has been developed 
and labelled in Japan. An inhibitor of purine nucleoside phosphorylase,
Ulodesine, is in development in combination with allopurinol. The rest of the
medications in the pipeline for hyperuricemia are targeting renal transporters of
uric acid, mainly URAT1 and OAT4, acting as uricosuric agents. Most of them, such
as lesinurad and arhalofenate, are being tested in trials in combination with
allopurinol and febuxostat. The most potent RDEA3170 is being tested in
monotherapy, but also associated with febuxostat. Recently, medications showing
dual activity, inhibiting both xanthine oxidoreductase and URAT1, have been
communicated or started exploratory clinical trials. There is no report of
medications targeting other transporters such as Glut9 or ABCG2.
SUMMARY: There are a number of medications in the pipeline targeting
hyperuricemia, mostly uricosurics in combination with xanthine oxidase
inhibitors, but some targeting both xanthine oxidoreductase and URAT1. Increasing
the number of available medications will ensure proper control of hyperuricemia
to target serum urate levels in the near future for most, if not all, patients
with hyperuricemia.

PMID: 25603039  [PubMed - in process]


17. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2015 Mar;27(2):204-11. doi: 10.1097/BOR.0000000000000150.

Targeting cell migration in rheumatoid arthritis.

Asquith DL(1), Bryce SA, Nibbs RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Immunobiology, Institute of Infection, Immunity & Inflammation,
College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow,
UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To provide an update of past failures, future prospects and
key challenges facing the therapeutic targeting of chemokines and their receptors
in rheumatoid arthritis.
RECENT FINDINGS: Clinical trials in rheumatoid arthritis have been undertaken
with small molecule antagonists or neutralizing antibodies targeting CCR1, CCR5
and CXCL10. Some encouraging results have emerged. Laboratory and clinical
research has identified CCL19, CXCL13 and CXCL12, and their receptors, as
potential future targets. Developments in our appreciation of posttranslational
chemokine modification highlight the complexity of chemokine networks operating
in inflamed tissues, and the substantial gaps in existing knowledge.
SUMMARY: Despite previous disappointments, there are still reasons to be
optimistic that drugs targeting chemokines and their receptors could be developed
for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. However, a deeper understanding of the
chemokine networks at work in inflamed joints is a necessary prerequisite.

PMID: 25603038  [PubMed - in process]


18. Dimens Crit Care Nurs. 2015 Mar-Apr;34(2):100-11. doi:
10.1097/DCC.0000000000000098.

Exaggerated plasma Interleukin 6, Interleukin 10, and Subsequent Development of
Health Care-Associated Infections in Patients With Sepsis.

Umberger R(1), Thompson CL, Cashion AK, Kuhl D, Wan J, Yates CR, Muthiah MP,
Meduri GU.

Author information: 
(1)Reba Umberger, PhD, RN, CCRN, is an assistant professor at the College of
Nursing, The University of Tennessee in Knoxville, and a research associate at
the Veterans Affairs Medical Center at Memphis. Her research interests include
risk factors for subsequent infections in patients with sepsis including genetic 
and epigenetic factors, early detection of sepsis, and long term outcomes in
survivors of sepsis. She teaches epidemiology, pathophysiology, and quantitative 
research. Carol L. Thompson, PhD, DNP, RN, is professor of critical care nursing 
at the University of Kentucky. She was a professor in the College of Nursing, The
University of Tennessee Health Science Center, when this research was conducted
and chaired the dissertation committee for this research. Her research interests 
are genetics, dyspnea, pain, and immobility in critically ill adults. Ann K.
Cashion, PhD, RN, is scientific director, Division of Intramural Research at the 
National Institutes of Health/National Institute of Nursing Research. Dr Ann
Cashion was a professor and chair, College of Nursing, The University of
Tennessee Health Science Center, when this research was conducted. Her primary
area of research interests is discovery of genomic biomarkers to predict patient 
outcomes and guide therapies. David Kuhl, PharmD, is professor of pharmacy at the
School of Pharmacy, Union University. Dr Kuhl currently teaches in both basic
science and applied pharmacy courses at the School of Pharmacy. His current
research primarily involves projects conducted by PGY-1 pharmacy residents
affiliated with Union University. Jim Wan, PhD, is associate professor of
biostatistics and epidemiology, The University of Tennessee. Dr Wan is an
experienced biostatistician collaborating with researchers all over the medical
campus. He has been instrumental in various observational studies, clinical
trials, and health services research. Charles R. Yates, PharmD, PhD, is professor
of pharmaceutical sciences, The Universi

BACKGROUND: Health care-associated infections (HAIs) are the target of many
well-known preventive measures in the intensive care unit (ICU); however, little 
is known about post-sepsis-induced immunosuppression.
OBJECTIVES: This study explores the relationship between baseline plasma levels
of inflammatory cytokines interleukin 6 (IL-6), IL-10, and IL-6:IL-10 and
subsequent development of HAIs in patients with admitted with sepsis.
METHODS: Prospective observational study was conducted among veterans admitted to
the ICU with sepsis and monitored daily through ICU discharge (up to 28 days) to 
investigate HAI development. Baseline plasma IL-6 and IL-10 levels were measured 
with a multiplex bead based assay. Exaggerated systemic inflammation was defined 
as the fourth quartile (IL-6 and IL-10) compared with other quartiles.
RESULTS: We recruited 78 patients over 18 months, primarily older (65.5 ± 12.6
years) men (94.9%) with underlying comorbidities (93.9%) and a high severity of
illness (Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation II score 20.6 ± 6.4).
Seventeen patients (21.7%) developed at least 1 HAI, and candidemia was the
leading infection. Patients with exaggerated baseline systemic inflammation
developed a nonsignificantly higher proportion of HAI as compared with those not 
developing HAI (IL-6: 31.6% vs 18.6%, P = .55; IL-10: 26.3% vs 20.3%, P = .43).
DISCUSSION: Patients with exaggerated systemic inflammation had a higher severity
of illness, but not a statistically significant higher incidence of HAI. A
larger, more adequately powered sample with serial cytokine measures is needed.
Routine surveillance cultures are needed. Health care-associated infection may
occur in the absence of fever, and the emerging incidence of Candida is a
concern. Immune suppression after sepsis should be recognized as a risk for HAI
development. Antibiotic therapy should be targeted with prompt de-escalation of
empiric therapy per established guidelines to preserve normal flora.

PMID: 25650495  [PubMed - in process]


19. Exp Ther Med. 2015 Mar;9(3):643-652. Epub 2015 Jan 23.

Role of quetiapine beyond its clinical efficacy in bipolar disorder: From
neuroprotection to the treatment of psychiatric disorders (Review).

Soeiro-DE-Souza MG(1), Dias VV(1), Missio G(1), Balanzá-Martinez V(2), Valiengo
L(3), Carvalho AF(4), Moreno RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mood Disorders Unit (GRUDA), Institute of Psychiatry, University of São Paulo,
São Paulo, Brazil. (2)University Hospital Doctor Peset and Section of Psychiatry,
University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain ; CIBER Mental Health (CIBERSAM), Carlos 
III Health Institute, Madrid, Spain. (3)Laboratory of Neuroscience (LIM27),
Institute of Psychiatry, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Psychiatry Research Group and Department of Clinical Medicine, Federal
University of Ceará, Fortaleza, Brazil.

The aim of the present review was to discuss the following aspects of treatment
with quetiapine in psychiatric disorders: i) Neurocognition and functional
recovery in bipolar disorder (BD); ii) neuroprotective profile in different
models; and iii) potential off-label indications. A PubMed search was conducted
of articles published in English between 2000 and 2012 on quetiapine,
cross-referenced with the terms 'anxiety', 'attention deficit disorder',
'borderline personality disorder', 'dementia', 'insomnia', 'major depressive
disorder' (MDD), 'obsessive-compulsive disorder', 'post-traumatic stress
disorder', 'remission', 'cognition', 'neurobiology', 'neuroprotection',
'efficacy' and 'effectiveness'. Articles were selected from meta-analyses,
randomized clinical trials and open trials, and the results were summarized.
Quetiapine, when studied in off-label conditions, has shown efficacy as a
monotherapy in MDD and general anxiety disorder. Quetiapine also appears to
exhibit a small beneficial effect in dementia. The review of other conditions was
affected by methodological limitations that precluded any definitive conclusions 
on the efficacy or safety of quetiapine. Overall, the present review shows
evidence supporting a potential role for quetiapine in improving cognition,
functional recovery and negative symptoms in a cost-effective manner in BD. These
benefits of quetiapine are potentially associated with its well-described
neuroprotective effects; however, further studies are clearly warranted.

PMCID: PMC4316978
PMID: 25667608  [PubMed]


20. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2015 Mar;11(3):451-9. doi:
10.1517/17425255.2015.1007950. Epub 2015 Feb 2.

Brentuximab vedotin for treating Hodgkin's lymphoma: an analysis of pharmacology 
and clinical efficacy.

Illés Á(1), Jóna Á, Miltényi Z.

Author information: 
(1)University of Debrecen, Institution of Internal Medicine, Department of
Hematology, Faculty of Medicine , Debrecen , Hungary.

INTRODUCTION: Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) is a highly curable lymphoma with a 70 -
90% long-term survival; however, patients with relapsed or refractory disease may
need additonal therapies and have significantly worse prognosis. Brentuximab
vedotin (BV) is an anti-CD-30 antibody-drug conjugate, which was approved for
treating classical HL patients following autologous stem cell transplantation or 
failure of at least two prior multi-agent chemotherapies within a year.
AREAS COVERED: Current clinical trials are investigating the role of BV in
frontline, salvage and adjuvant setting of treatment. Safety and efficacy results
of completed trials are summarized in this review. Metabolic, pharmacokinetic
issues of BV are also discussed.
EXPERT OPINION: BV is a targeted therapeutic option for treating HL, which is a
significant improvement compared to conventional multiagent chemotherapy. It may 
represent a valid option for heavily pretreated patients. Currently running
clinical trials are seeking a role for BV in the first-line setting, as well as
treating autologous stem cell transplant candidate patients, relapsing after
autologous stem cell transplant, bridging to allogenic stem cell transplant and
treating elderly patients. Indication of drug may change, expand and an exact
role may be established in the upcoming 5 years based on the results of currently
running trials.

PMID: 25642958  [PubMed - in process]


21. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2015 Mar;11(3):461-70. doi:
10.1517/17425255.2015.1000860. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Denosumab for the treatment of osteoporosis.

Zaheer S(1), LeBoff M, Lewiecki EM.

Author information: 
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital , Boston, MA , USA.

INTRODUCTION: Low trauma fractures due to osteoporosis are a major health concern
worldwide. Despite the availability of many therapeutic compounds to reduce
fracture risk, osteoporosis remains undertreated and the burden of osteoporotic
fractures remains high. Denosumab is a novel agent that acts to reduce bone
turnover, improve bone mineral density, and reduce fracture risk, offering a
favorable efficacy and safety profile.
AREAS COVERED: This review covers the pharmacology and major clinical trials with
extension/post-marketing follow-up, including trials for all FDA-approved
indications of denosumab to date.
EXPERT OPINION: Denosumab is an efficacious and safe osteoporosis treatment
option, with current data from up to 8 years of continued use showing continued
improvement in bone density with sustained fracture risk reduction. Safety
profiles overall are similar to placebo, with no new safety concerns in extension
trials, though a theoretical increased risk of infection exists with RANKL
inhibition. Future considerations include safety of prolonged treatment beyond 8 
years, and efficacy/fracture risk after discontinuation or with non-adherence,
given the characteristic pharmacodynamic profile of denosumab.

PMID: 25614274  [PubMed - in process]


22. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 Mar;24(3):421-431. Epub 2015 Feb 3.

Buparlisib , an oral pan-PI3K inhibitor for the treatment of breast cancer.

Geuna E(1), Milani A, Martinello R, Aversa C, Valabrega G, Scaltriti M,
Montemurro F.

Author information: 
(1)Investigative Clinical Oncology (INCO), Fondazione del Piemonte per
l'Oncologia (FPO) - Candiolo Cancer Center (IRCCs), Institute for Cancer Research
and Treatment of Candiolo , Strada Provinciale 142, Km 3.95, CAP 10060, Candiolo,
Turin , Italy +39 0119933958 ; +39 0119621525 ; andrea.milani@ircc.it.

Introduction: Deregulation of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase
(PI3K)/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) intracellular signaling pathway
is common in breast cancer (BC) and has been found to be potentially implicated
in resistance to endocrine and anti-HER2 therapies. Targeting the PI3K/Akt/mTOR
pathway may remove this inhibition and restore sensitivity to these compounds.
Buparlisib (BKM120) is a potent oral pan-class I PI3K inhibitor that is being
extensively evaluated in multiple tumor types. Areas covered: This review briefly
summarizes the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of buparlisib, focusing on
preclinical and clinical data in BC and on ongoing randomized trials. Expert
opinion: Overall, buparlisib is a safe and tolerable drug and, despite its
peculiar toxicity profile, it is suitable for studies in combination with other
anticancer agents in BC. Early-phase clinical trials in BC have provided evidence
of antitumor activity. Several trials are being conducted in all the biological
subsets of BC, including combinations with endocrine therapy, anti-HER2 agents,
PARP-inhibitors and chemotherapy. While clinical results are eagerly awaited,
biological material suitable for both genomic and non-genomic analyses is being
collected. The authors expect an intense investigation of the potential
biomarkers that explain response or resistance to buparlisib and inspire
strategies to rationally explore the therapeutic potential of this drug.

PMID: 25645727  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


23. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 Mar;24(3):345-362. Epub 2015 Feb 1.

Investigational therapies currently in Phase II clinical trials for the treatment
of pelvic serous carcinomas.

Bergamini A(1), Leone Roberti Maggiore U, Ferrero S, Rabaiotti E, Viganò R,
Petrone M, De Marzi P, Salvatore S, Candiani M, Mangili G.

Author information: 
(1)Vita-Salute San Raffaele University and IRRCS San Raffaele Hospital,
Obstetrics and Gynaecology Unit , Via Olgettina 58-60, 20132, Milan , Italy.

Introduction: Pelvic serous carcinomas (PSCs) are a controversial entity, which
mostly comprise fallopian tube carcinoma (FTC), primary peritoneal carcinoma
(PPC) and serous ovarian carcinoma (OC). Despite incremental attention towards
understanding pelvic serous carcinogenesis, the gold standard treatment and
survival rates have not substantially changed in these last decades. Areas
covered: This review summarizes and gives a critical overview of the ongoing
Phase II trials investigating therapies for PSC. Expert opinion: Several novel
molecules have been developed and are currently under investigation for the
treatment of PSC, including FTC, PPC and serous OC. The trend of novel targeted
agents is one towards individualized, tailored therapy, based on the molecular
and biological differences that characterize tumors that seem similar based
solely on histological analysis. The task of developing new molecules is
particularly difficult for PSC, given the recurrent development of new patterns
of drug resistance. However, even if current research is focused towards
identifying the best treatments for each woman with a molecularly defined
disease, a deeper knowledge of the molecular biology and genetics underlying FTC 
and its relation as a precursor of PSC is needed.

PMID: 25640877  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


24. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 Mar;24(3):433-442. Epub 2015 Jan 21.

Delafloxacin for the treatment of respiratory and skin infections.

Bassetti M(1), Della Siega P, Pecori D, Scarparo C, Righi E.

Author information: 
(1)Santa Maria Misericordia University Hospital, Infectious Diseases Division ,
Piazzale S. Maria della Misericordia, n. 15, 33100, Udine , Italy + 86 21
38804518; extn. 8319 ; + 39 0432 559360 ; mattba@tin.it.

Introduction: There has been a striking increase in the emergence of
multidrug-resistant pathogens in recent times. Delafloxacin is a novel,
broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone with antimicrobial activity against resistant
Gram-positive, Gram-negative and anaerobic organisms. It has the potential to
treat a variety of infections including complicated skin and skin structure
infections and respiratory tract infections. Areas covered: In this review, the
authors report the microbiological spectrum of activity of delafloxacin as well
as its pharmacokinetic characteristics. They also report the results of recent
studies investigating its safety and efficacy. Expert opinion: The profile of
delafloxacin offers several advantages. Delafloxacin presents a broad spectrum of
activity against pathogens involved in respiratory infections and complicated
skin and skin structure infections (SSSIs), including methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus. It has also shown activity against Gram-negative
pathogens, such as quinolone-susceptible and -resistant strains of Escherichia
coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae and quinolone-susceptible Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 
The availability of an oral formulation supports its use in sequential therapy.
The efficacy and tolerability of delafloxacin have been demonstrated in Phase II 
clinical trials in comparison with moxifloxacin for respiratory infections and
linezolid and vancomycin in SSSIs. Compared with other quinolones such as
moxifloxacin, delafloxacin showed comparable efficacy and a lower rate of adverse
effects. The results of new Phase III studies are awaited to confirm
delafloxacin's future applications in the treatment of SSSIs.

PMID: 25604710  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


25. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2015 Mar;16(4):597-606.

Saroglitazar for the treatment of dyslipidemia in diabetic patients.

Joshi SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lilavati Hospital and Research Centre - Endocrinology , A - 791 Bandra
Reclamation Bandra (W), Mumbai, Maharashtra 400050 , India shashank.sr@gmail.com.

Introduction: Diabetes and dyslipidemia are commonly associated modifiable risk
factors for cardiovascular diseases. Majority of patients with diabetes also
suffer from dyslipidemia (diabetic dyslipidemia). Diabetic dyslipidemia is more
atherogenic as it is commonly associated with high triglyceride (TG) levels, high
proportion of small dense low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and low
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) level (atherogenic dyslipidemia).
Currently used pharmacotherapies for the management of diabetes and dyslipidemia 
like thiazolidinediones (PPAR-γ agonist; for insulin resistance) and fibrates
(PPAR-α agonist; for hypertriglyceridemia) have many limitations and side
effects. Saroglitazar , a dual PPAR-α/γ agonists, is an emerging therapeutic
option with its dual benefit on glycemic and lipid parameters. Areas covered:
This paper reviews the clinical development of saroglitazar for the management of
diabetic dyslipidemia. The efficacy and safety profile of saroglitazar is
reviewed in context to currently available therapy like pioglitazone for diabetes
and fibrates for hypertriglyceridemia. In addition, this paper also reviews the
association between diabetes and dyslipidemia and the role of TG in reducing
cardiovascular events. Expert opinion: Saroglitazar, a dual PPAR-α/γ agonist, is 
a potential therapeutic option for the management of diabetic dyslipidemia. It
has dual benefit of significant improvement in glycemic parameters (glycated
hemoglobin and fasting blood glucose) and significant improvement in dyslipidemia
(TGs, apolipoprotein B, non-HDL-C). The results of Phase III clinical trials
indicate that saroglitazar is devoid of conventional side effects of fibrates and
pioglitazone. Future clinical trials of saroglitazar will further establish its
place in the management of diabetes, dyslipidemia and associated cardiovascular
risk.

PMID: 25674933  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


26. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2015 Mar;25(3):291-318. doi: 10.1517/13543776.2015.1008449.

Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 antagonists: a patent review (2011 
- 2014).

Lee Y(1), Hong S, Cui M, Sharma PK, Lee J, Choi S.

Author information: 
(1)Ewha Womans University, National Leading Research Laboratory of Molecular
Modeling and Drug Design, College of Pharmacy, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, and Global Top 5 Research Program , Seoul 120-750 , Korea +82 2 3277
4503 ; +82 2 3277 2851 ; sunchoi@ewha.ac.kr.

INTRODUCTION: Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) is a
nonselective cation channel that can be activated by noxious heat, low pH and
vanilloid compounds such as capsaicin. Since TRPV1 acts as an integrator of
painful stimuli, TRPV1 antagonists can be used as promising therapeutics for new 
types of analgesics.
AREAS COVERED: This review article covers the patents that claim TRPV1
antagonists and were published during 2011 - 2014. The patent evaluation is
organized according to the applicant companies, and the representative chemical
entities with important in vitro and in vivo data are summarized.
EXPERT OPINION: Many pharmaceutical companies showed promising results in the
discovery of potent small molecule TRPV1 antagonists, and recently, a number of
small molecule TRPV1 antagonists have been advanced into clinical trials.
Unfortunately, several candidate molecules showed critical side effects such as
hyperthermia and impaired noxious heat sensation in humans, leading to their
withdrawal from clinical trials. Some TRPV1 antagonists patented in recent years 
(2011 - 2014) overcame these undesirable side effects, making the development of 
TRPV1 antagonists much more promising.

PMID: 25666693  [PubMed - in process]


27. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2015 Mar;13(3):305-15. doi:
10.1586/14787210.2015.1011127. Epub 2015 Feb 3.

Delamanid (OPC-67683) for treatment of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis.

Sotgiu G(1), Pontali E, Centis R, D'Ambrosio L, Migliori GB.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Statistics Unit, Department of Biomedical
Sciences - University of Sassari, - Research, Medical Education and Professional 
Development Unit, AOU Sassari, Italy.

The research and development of delamanid was carried out by Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Development and Commercialization (Osaka, Tokyo, Japan). It
belongs to the group of nitroimidazoles. It inhibits the synthesis of mycolic
acids, crucial component of the cell wall of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis
complex. It is insoluble in water and its activity was proven in several in vitro
and in vivo studies. Its market approval was obtained in April 2014 in Europe.
Its bactericidal activity was demonstrated in individuals with drug-susceptible
and drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR- and XDR-TB). The safety and tolerability
profile was good; the notified increased QT interval was not clinically relevant.
It was approved for adults but ongoing clinical trials and clinical experiences
have been proving its efficacy in the pediatric population.

PMID: 25645397  [PubMed - in process]


28. Int J Nurs Stud. 2015 Mar;52(3):666-76. doi: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2014.12.007. Epub
2015 Jan 3.

The impact of an emergency department nursing intervention on continuity of care,
self-care capacities and psychological symptoms: Secondary outcomes of a
randomized controlled trial.

Cossette S(1), Frasure-Smith N(2), Vadeboncoeur A(3), McCusker J(4), Guertin
MC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Nursing, University of Montreal, Montreal Heart Institute Research 
Center, Canada. Electronic address: Sylvie.cossette.inf@umontreal.ca.
(2)Psychiatry and Nursing, McGill University, Centre hospitalier de l'Université 
de Montréal and Montreal Heart Institute Research Center, Canada. (3)Emergency
Department, Montreal Heart Institute, Canada. (4)Department of Epidemiology,
Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, McGill University, St. Mary's Research
Centre, Canada. (5)Biostatistics, Montreal Health Innovations Coordinating
Center, Canada.

BACKGROUND: As yet there is no firm evidence about the types of intervention that
can reduce emergency room revisits. However, the literature on emergency room
revisits suggests patient difficulties with managing their health problems and
treatments after discharge may play a role.
OBJECTIVES: We carried out a randomized trial of an emergency department-based
nursing intervention, but results showed no reduction in revisits (primary
outcome). This paper describes the secondary outcomes of the trial: patient
perceptions of continuity of care, illness perceptions, self-care capacities,
psychological symptoms and medication adherence 30 days after emergency room
discharge.
DESIGN: Randomized, controlled trial.
SETTINGS: The trial was conducted in the emergency department of a tertiary
cardiac hospital in Montreal, Canada between November 2007 and March 2010.
PARTICIPANTS: The study involved 203 patients, including 108 in the experimental 
group and 95 in the control group.
METHODS: The intervention included one nurse patient encounter before discharge
and two phone calls in the 10 days after discharge. Participants provided data 30
days post-discharge on secondary outcomes potentially related to emergency
department revisits.
RESULTS: Although, as previously reported, the intervention had no impact on the 
primary outcome of emergency department revisits, the present study demonstrated 
a significant positive effect on patients' perceived continuity of care (p=.033),
self-care capacities (p=.037), anxiety (p=.007) and depressive symptoms (p=.043),
and the illness perceptions treatment control subscale (p=.037). No differences
were found for other illness perception subscales or medication adherence (all
p's>.05).
CONCLUSION: Although the intervention did not influence emergency department
revisits it did improve secondary outcomes, suggesting pathways for future
research.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25613830  [PubMed - in process]


29. J Clin Neurosci. 2015 Mar;22(3):588-91. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2014.09.017. Epub
2015 Jan 23.

Thermal quantitative sensory testing: A study of 101 control subjects.

Hafner J(1), Lee G(1), Joester J(1), Lynch M(1), Barnes EH(2), Wrigley PJ(3), Ng 
K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Clinical Administration 
3E, Royal North Shore Hospital, Reserve Road, St Leonards, NSW 2065, Australia.
(2)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, Camperdown, NSW,
Australia. (3)Pain Management Research Institute, Kolling Institute, Northern
Sydney Local Health District, St Leonards, NSW 2065, Australia; Northern Clinical
School, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
(4)Department of Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Clinical Administration 
3E, Royal North Shore Hospital, Reserve Road, St Leonards, NSW 2065, Australia;
Office of Research and Research Training, Sydney Medical School, University of
Sydney, NSW, Australia; Northern Clinical School, Sydney Medical School,
University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. Electronic address:
karl.ng@sydney.edu.au.

Quantitative sensory testing is useful for the diagnosis, confirmation and
monitoring of small fibre neuropathies. Normative data have been reported but
differences in methodology, lack of age-specific values and graphical
presentation of data make much of these data difficult to apply in a clinical
setting. We have collected normative age-specific thermal threshold data for use 
in a clinical setting and clarified other factors influencing reference values,
including the individual machine or operator. Thermal threshold studies were
performed on 101 healthy volunteers (21-70years old) using one of two Medoc
Thermal Sensory Analyser II machines (Medoc, Ramat Yishai, Israel) with a number 
of operators. A further study was performed on 10 healthy volunteers using both
machines and one operator at least 3weeks apart. Thermal threshold detection
increases with age and is different for different body regions. There is no
significant difference seen in results between machines of the same make and
model; however, different operators may influence results. Normative data for
thermal thresholds should be applied using only age- and region-specific values
and all operators should be trained and strictly adhere to standard protocols. To
our knowledge, this is the largest published collection of normal controls for
thermal threshold testing presented with regression data which can easily be used
in the clinical setting.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25624058  [PubMed - in process]


30. Oncol Lett. 2015 Mar;9(3):1432-1438. Epub 2015 Jan 14.

EGFR methylation and outcome of patients with advanced colorectal cancer treated 
with cetuximab.

Chiadini E(1), Scarpi E(2), Passardi A(3), Calistri D(1), Valgiusti M(3),
Saragoni L(4), Zoli W(1), Amadori D(3), Ulivi P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biosciences Laboratory, Istituto Scientifico Romagnolo per lo Studio e la Cura
dei Tumori (IRST) IRCCS, Meldola, Italy. (2)Unit of Biostatistics and Clinical
Trials, Istituto Scientifico Romagnolo per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori (IRST) 
IRCCS, Meldola, Italy. (3)Department of Medical Oncology, Istituto Scientifico
Romagnolo per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori (IRST) IRCCS, Meldola, Italy.
(4)Pathology Unit, Morgagni-Pierantoni Hospital, Forlì, Italy.

Targeted therapy of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) with monoclonal antibody 
anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) agents, such as cetuximab (CTX) or
panitumumab, is the treatment strategy of choice in patients characterised by a
wild-type (wt) RAS gene status. However, despite selection based on RAS status, a
high proportion of patients do not respond to therapy. EGFR methylation has been 
reported to have a role in predicting the response to anti-EGFR agents. The
present study aimed to evaluate the role of EGFR methylation in association with 
the clinical outcome of patients with mCRC treated with CTX. In total, 64
patients with mCRC were assessed in the present study. Genomic DNA was extracted 
from tumoral tissue and EGFR methylation and mutation of the KRAS, BRAF and
PIK3CA genes were analysed by pyrosequencing. EGFR expression was assessed by
immunohistochemistry. The various alterations were analysed by assessing the
objective response rate (ORR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall
survival (OS) rates. In total, 42 cases (66%) exhibited >10% EGFR methylation and
there was no correlation with EGFR expression. Mean EGFR methylation of 41 and 9%
was observed in KRAS-mutated and -wt patients, respectively (P=0.05). Conversely,
a high EGFR methylation was observed in BRAF-wt patients with compared with
patients possessing the mutated gene (18 vs. 3%, respectively; P=0.07). EGFR
methylation was significantly correlated with the OS rate [hazard ratio, 0.98;
95% confidence interval (CI), 0.96-1.00; P=0.019], but not PFS rate. In patients 
with a methylation rate <10 and >10%, the median OS rate was 7.5 months (95% CI, 
4.4-9.4 months) and 12.0 months (95% CI, 8.7-13.9 months), respectively
(P=0.034). In conclusion, the present study revealed a correlation between EGFR
methylation and improved OS rate in patients treated with CTX-based chemotherapy.
The presence of EGFR methylation is inversely correlated with BRAF and PIK3CA
mutations, indicating that the prognostic value of gene methylation may be worth 
verifying in further studies.

PMCID: PMC4315084
PMID: 25663927  [PubMed]


31. Oncol Rep. 2015 Mar;33(3):1019-39. doi: 10.3892/or.2015.3741. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Statins are potential anticancerous agents (Review).

Altwairgi AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Center, King Fahad Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Statins are inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase
(HMGCR), which is a rate-limiting enzyme in the mevalonate pathway. The
pleiotropic effects of statins may be mediated by the inhibition of downstream
products such as small GTP-binding proteins, Rho, Ras and Rac whose localization 
and function are dependent on isoprenylation. Preclinical studies of statins in
different cancer cell lines and animal models showed antiproliferative,
pro‑apoptotic and anti-invasive effects. Notably, statins showed targeted action 
in cancerous cell lines compared to normal cells. Previous studies have also
shown the synergistic effects of statins with chemotherapeutic agents and
radiotherapy. This effect of statins was also observed in
chemotherapeutic-resistant tumors. Statins were reported to sensitize the cells
to radiation by arresting them in the late G1 phase of the cell cycle. Similarly,
population-based studies also demonstrated a chemopreventive and survival benefit
of statins in various types of cancers. However, this benefit has yet to be
proven in clinical trials. The inter-individual variation in response to statins 
may be contributed to many genetic and non-genetic factors, including
single-nucleotide polymorphisms in HMGCR gene and the overexpression of
heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A1, which was reported to reduce HMGCR
enzyme activity. However, more studies with large phase III randomized controlled
trials in cancer patients should be conducted to establish the effect of stains
in cancer prevention and treatment.

PMID: 25607255  [PubMed - in process]


32. Rev Bras Epidemiol. 2015 Mar;18(1):174-193. Epub 2015 Mar 1.

Primaquine and relapses of Plasmodium vivax. Meta analysis of controlled clinical
trials.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Carmona Fonseca J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín, Antioquia, Colombia.

BACKGROUND: Primaquine (PQ) is used against relapses of vivax malaria (RVM) but
several aspects about dosage are unknown, as the total effective dose (TD) in a
number of days.
OBJECTIVE: To compare PQ regimens against RVM in randomized or non randomized
controlled clinical trials (CCTs).
METHODOLOGY: Meta analysis. Information was sought until 31 December, 2012 in
Lilacs, SciELO, PubMed (Medline), Cochrane Library, Cochrane Infectious Diseases 
Group, Embase. Experimental studies or CCT were used, always with concurrent
control group. No matter whether or not the design was randomized, close label,
supervised. It is not required that the study established difference between
relapse and reinfection by molecular evidence. Inclusion and exclusion criteria
for articles were applied and meet the inclusion criteria constituted adequate
quality to be left in the meta analysis.
RESULTS: 23 ECC with or without random allocation of treatment met the selection 
criteria. Include four schemes of TD (TD mg number of days): 210 14 = 210 mg in
14 days; 210 7 = 210 mg in 7 days, 45 to 150 mg in 3 to 10 days, 0 (not PQ). If
PQ is absent, recurrences occurr 34.48% versus 19.66% with PQ 210 14 (significant
difference), 210 14 showed effectiveness equal to that of 210 7. Treatments 210 7
and 210 14 were statistically better than 45 to 150 effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of PQ is necessary to reduce recurrences and TD 210 mg given
at 7 or 14 days is which is more effective but more studies are required to
treatment 210 7.

PMID: 25651020  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


33. Soc Sci Med. 2015 Mar;128:255-62. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2015.01.038. Epub 2015
Jan 22.

International clinical trials, cardiovascular disease and treatment options in
the Russian Federation: Research and treatment in practice.

Zvonareva O(1), Engel N(2), Martsevich S(3), de Wert G(2), Horstman K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health, Ethics and Society, Maastricht University, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: o.zvonareva@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(2)Department of Health, Ethics and Society, Maastricht University, The
Netherlands. (3)Department of Preventive Pharmacotherapy, The National Research
Center for Preventive Medicine, Russian Federation.

The issue of balance between research and treatment in clinical trials conduct
has been surrounded by controversies. Scientific characteristics of trials may
compromise medical care available to participants, while conceiving research
participation as having therapeutic value may foster the therapeutic
misconception. However, it has also been questioned whether research can and
should always be separated from medical care provision. In this paper we analyze 
how these concerns played out in practice settings of the three trial sites in
Russia, specialized in trials in cardiovascular diseases. Using in-depth
interviews with participants of phase II and III trials (n = 21) and discussions 
with physician-investigators (n = 7), we found that trial enrollment allowed
participants to establish continuous supportive relationships with the
physician-investigators. In the context of unresponsive health care, chronically 
ill participants received regular monitoring, treatment recommendations and help 
in case of problems and emergencies through such relationships. The trial designs
in the three sites did not preclude the provision of individualized treatment. We
suggest that debates about the research/treatment interface in trials need to
become more attuned to the conditions in locations of their conduct, views and
experiences of actors involved and evolving trial methodologies. Too much focus
on categorical differentiation of research and treatment may obscure the fact
that globalizing clinical trials proceed amidst profound health disparities,
dismiss diverse concerns of people on the ground and risk attenuating
responsibilities of trial organizers, sponsors and investigators towards research
participants.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25635372  [PubMed - in process]


34. Zhonghua Wei Chang Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2015 Feb 25;18(2):116-20.

[Perioperative standardized management under the guidance of fast track surgery
in gastric cancer patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu S(1), Zhou Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University,
Qingdao 266003, China. zhouyanbing999@aliyun.com.

Fast track surgery is referred as the integration of different medical
intervention actively during peri-operative period to accelerate the
rehabilitation of patients undergoing operation. The propose of fast track
surgery has brought about great changes in the treatment mode of many diseases,
and the concept has been used in a variety of operations, especially the
gastrointestinal surgery. Fast track surgery covers the preoperative appropriate 
preparation and assessment, sophisticated operative manipulation, and the
standardization of postoperative treatment and nursing care. According to
clinical trials, fast track surgery is associated with reduced post-operative
complications, hospital stay and cost in patients with gastric cancer undergoing 
surgery. However, some problems exist in the application of fast track surgery in
clinical practice, including the multidisciplinary coordination and higher
readmission rates etc. A large number of evidence-based clinical trials have
confirmed the efficacy of fast track, so we believe that the fast track surgery
will be applied more widely.

PMID: 25656116  [PubMed - in process]


35. Phys Med Biol. 2015 Feb 21;60(5):1793-1805. Epub 2015 Feb 6.

Calculating radiotherapy margins based on Bayesian modelling of patient specific 
random errors.

Herschtal A(1), Te Marvelde L, Mengersen K, Hosseinifard Z, Foroudi F, Devereux
T, Pham D, Ball D, Greer PB, Pichler P, Eade T, Kneebone A, Bell L, Caine H,
Hindson B, Kron T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, Peter MacCallum Cancer
Centre, Melbourne, Australia. Faculty of Health Arts and Design, Swinburne
University of Technology, Melbourne, Australia.

Collected real-life clinical target volume (CTV) displacement data show that some
patients undergoing external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) demonstrate significantly
more fraction-to-fraction variability in their displacement ('random error') than
others. This contrasts with the common assumption made by historical recipes for 
margin estimation for EBRT, that the random error is constant across patients. In
this work we present statistical models of CTV displacements in which random
errors are characterised by an inverse gamma (IG) distribution in order to assess
the impact of random error variability on CTV-to-PTV margin widths, for eight
real world patient cohorts from four institutions, and for different sites of
malignancy. We considered a variety of clinical treatment requirements and
penumbral widths. The eight cohorts consisted of a total of 874 patients and
27 391 treatment sessions. Compared to a traditional margin recipe that assumes
constant random errors across patients, for a typical 4 mm penumbral width, the
IG based margin model mandates that in order to satisfy the common clinical
requirement that 90% of patients receive at least 95% of prescribed RT dose to
the entire CTV, margins be increased by a median of 10% (range over the eight
cohorts -19% to +35%). This substantially reduces the proportion of patients for 
whom margins are too small to satisfy clinical requirements.

PMID: 25658193  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


36. AIDS. 2015 Feb 20;29(4):453-62. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000570.

Passive transfer of neutralizing mAb KD-247 reduces plasma viral load in patients
chronically infected with HIV-1.

Matsushita S(1), Yoshimura K, Ramirez KP, Pisupati J, Murakami T; KD-1002 Study
Group.

Author information: 
(1)aCenter for AIDS Research, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto bAIDS Research
Center, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan cQuintiles Inc., 
Overland Park, Kansas, USA dThe Chemo-Sero-Therapeutic Research Institute
(Kaketsuken), Kumamoto, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Neutralizing antibodies against HIV-1 such as a humanized mAb KD-247
can mediate effector functions that attack infected cells in vitro. However, the 
clinical efficacy of neutralizing antibodies in infected individuals remains to
be determined. We evaluated the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of
KD-247 infusion and its effect on plasma HIV-1 RNA load and CD4 T-cell count.
DESIGN AND METHODS: KD-1002 is a phase Ib, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
dose-escalation study of KD-247 in asymptomatic HIV-1 seropositive individuals
who did not need antiretroviral therapy. Individuals were randomized to 4, 8 or
16 mg/kg KD-247 or placebo, and received three infusions over a 2-week period.
RESULTS: Patients were randomized to receive one of the three doses of KD-247 and
the treatment was well tolerated. We observed a significant decrease in HIV RNA
in the 8 and 16 mg/kg KD-247 cohorts, with two individuals who achieved more than
1 log reduction of HIV RNA. Two patients in the 16 mg/kg cohort had selections
and/or mutations in the V3-tip region that suggested evasion of neutralization.
Long-term suppression of viral load was observed in one patient despite a
significant decrease in plasma concentration of KD-247, suggesting effects of the
antibody other than neutralization or loss of fitness of the evading virus.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that KD-247 reduces viral load in patients with 
chronic HIV-1 infection and further clinical trials are warranted.

PMID: 25630040  [PubMed - in process]


37. Am J Cardiol. 2015 Feb 15;115(4):447-53. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2014.11.026. Epub
2014 Nov 29.

Impact of female sex on lipid lowering, clinical outcomes, and adverse effects in
atorvastatin trials.

Hsue PY(1), Bittner VA(2), Betteridge J(3), Fayyad R(4), Laskey R(4), Wenger
NK(5), Waters DD(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco,
California. (2)Division of Cardiovascular Disease, University of Alabama at
Birmingham, School of Medicine, Birmingham, Alabama. (3)University College London
Hospital, London, United Kingdom. (4)Pfizer Inc., New York, New York. (5)Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia. (6)Division of Cardiology, San
Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, California. Electronic address:
dwaters@medsfgh.ucsf.edu.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of atorvastatin on lipid
lowering, cardiovascular (CV) events, and adverse events in women compared with
men in 6 clinical trials. In the Incremental Decrease in End Points Through
Aggressive Lipid Lowering (IDEAL) trial (atorvastatin 80 mg vs simvastatin 20 to 
40 mg), the Treating to New Targets (TNT) trial (atorvastatin 80 vs 10 mg), the
Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL) trial
(atorvastatin 80 mg vs placebo), and the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes
Study (CARDS), the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial (ASCOT), and the
Atorvastatin Study for Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease Endpoints in
Non-Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (ASPEN) (atorvastatin 10 mg vs placebo), 
lipid changes on treatment were compared between genders with studies grouped by 
dose. The association of on-study low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and
CV events by gender was evaluated in the combined studies and the impact of
gender on adverse events in each study separately. Major CV events occurred in
3,083 of 30,000 men (10.3%) and 823 of 9,173 women (9.0%). Changes in lipids were
similar in women and men. Major CV events were associated with gender-specific
quintiles of on-treatment LDL cholesterol for women and men. In women, LDL
cholesterol was a significant predictor of stroke, but not in men.
Discontinuation rates due to adverse events were higher in women in 4 of 6
trials, but in only 1 trial was a significant treatment-gender interaction seen. 
Myalgia rates were slightly higher in women in both statin and placebo groups. In
conclusion, the response of women to atorvastatin was similar to that of men,
with slightly more discontinuations due to adverse events. Higher on-treatment
LDL cholesterol was significantly associated with more CV events in both genders,
but the association was stronger for stroke in women and for coronary heart
disease death in men.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637322  [PubMed - in process]


38. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2015 Feb 15;981-982:40-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jchromb.2014.12.013. Epub 2015 Jan 8.

Determination of tapentadol and tapentadol-O-glucuronide in human serum samples
by UPLC-MS/MS.

Hillewaert V(1), Pusecker K(2), Sips L(3), Verhaeghe T(3), de Vries R(3),
Langhans M(2), Terlinden R(2), Timmerman P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioanalysis, Janssen Research and Development, Turnhoutseweg 30,
B-2340 Beerse, Belgium. Electronic address: vhillewa@its.jnj.com. (2)Grünenthal
GmbH, Zieglerstraße 6, 52078 Aachen, Germany. (3)Department of Bioanalysis,
Janssen Research and Development, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium.

Tapentadol is a novel, centrally acting analgesic with 2 mechanisms of action,
MOR agonism and noradrenaline (NA) reuptake inhibition in a single molecule. It
is the first member of a new therapeutic class, MOR-NRI. A high throughput liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric (LC-MS/MS) assay was developed and
validated for the quantitative analysis of tapentadol and its O-glucuronide
metabolite in human serum. Simultaneous quantification was deemed to be
challenging because of the large difference in concentrations between tapentadol 
and its O-glucuronide metabolite in clinical samples. Therefore, a method was
established using a common processed sample, but with different injection volumes
and chromatographic conditions for each analyte. Tapentadol and
tapentadol-O-glucuronide were determined by protein precipitation of 0.100ml of
the samples with acetonitrile. The internal standards used are D6-tapentadol and 
D6-tapentadol-O-glucuronide. The validated concentration range was 0.200-200ng/ml
(tapentadol) and 10.0-10,000ng/ml (tapentadol-O-glucuronide). Chromatographic
separation was achieved by gradient elution on a Waters Acquity UPLC BEH C18
(1.7μm, 2.1×50mm) column, with mobile phase consisting of 0.01M ammonium formate 
(adjusted to pH 4 using formic acid) (A) and methanol (B). A separate injection
was done for measurement of each analyte, with a different gradient and run time.
The analytes were detected by using an electrospray ion source on a triple
quadrupole mass spectrometer operating in positive ionization mode. The run time 
was 1.6min for tapentadol and 1.5min for tapentadol-O-glucuronide. The high
sensitivity and acceptable performance of the assay allowed its application to
the analysis of serum samples in clinical trials. The validated method was used
for analysis of tapentadol in over 17,000 samples.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25600054  [PubMed - in process]


39. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2015 Feb 15;981-982:9-13. doi:
10.1016/j.jchromb.2014.12.017. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Characterization of antibody drug conjugate positional isomers at cysteine
residues by peptide mapping LC-MS analysis.

Janin-Bussat MC(1), Dillenbourg M(1), Corvaia N(1), Beck A(2), Klinguer-Hamour
C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Immunologie Pierre Fabre, 5 Avenue Napoleon III BP 60497, 74164
Saint-Julien-en-Genevois, France. (2)Centre d'Immunologie Pierre Fabre, 5 Avenue 
Napoleon III BP 60497, 74164 Saint-Julien-en-Genevois, France. Electronic
address: alain.beck@pierre-fabre.com. (3)Centre d'Immunologie Pierre Fabre, 5
Avenue Napoleon III BP 60497, 74164 Saint-Julien-en-Genevois, France. Electronic 
address: christine.klinguer.hamour@pierre-fabre.com.

Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are becoming a major class of oncology
therapeutics. Because ADCs combine the monoclonal antibody specificity with the
high toxicity of a drug, they can selectively kill tumor cells while minimizing
toxicity to normal cells. Most of the current ADCs in clinical trials are
controlled, but heterogeneous mixtures of isomers and isoforms. Very few
protocols on ADC characterization at the peptide level have been published to
date. Here, we report on the improvement of an ADC peptide mapping protocol to
characterize the drug-loaded peptides by LC-MS analysis. These methods were
developed on brentuximab vedotin (Adcetris(®)), a commercial ADC with an average 
of four drugs linked to interchain cysteine residues of its antibody component.
Because of the drug hydrophobicity, all the steps of this protocol including
enzymatic digestion were improved to maintain the hydrophobic drug-loaded
peptides in solution, allowing their unambiguous identification by LC-MS. For the
first time, the payloads positional isomers observed by RP-HPLC after
IdeS-digestion and reduction of the ADC were also characterized.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596378  [PubMed - in process]


40. Br J Cancer. 2015 Feb 12. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2015.57. [Epub ahead of print]

An evaluation of the prognostic model PREDICT using the POSH cohort of women aged
⩽40 years at breast cancer diagnosis.

Maishman T(1), Copson E(1), Stanton L(1), Gerty S(1), Dicks E(2), Durcan L(1),
Wishart GC(3), Pharoah P(2); POSH Steering Group, Eccles D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Sciences Academic Unit and University of Southampton Clinical Trials
Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton and University Hospital
Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK. (2)Department of Oncology,
Strangeways Research Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Worts Causeway,
Cambridge CB1 8RN, UK. (3)Faculty of Medical Science, Anglia Ruskin University,
Cambridge CB1 1PT, UK.

Background:Breast cancer is the most common cancer in younger women (aged ⩽40
years) in the United Kingdom. PREDICT (http://www.predict.nhs.uk) is an online
prognostic tool developed to help determine the best available treatment and
outcome for early breast cancer. This study was conducted to establish how well
PREDICT performs in estimating survival in a large cohort of younger women
recruited to the UK POSH study.Methods:The POSH cohort includes data from 3000
women aged ⩽40 years at breast cancer diagnosis. Study end points were overall
and breast cancer-specific survival at 5, 8, and 10 years. Evaluation of PREDICT 
included model discrimination and comparison of the number of predicted versus
observed events.Results:PREDICT provided accurate long-term (8- and 10-year)
survival estimates for younger women. Five-year estimates were less accurate,
with the tool overestimating survival by 25% overall, and by 56% for patients
with oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive tumours. PREDICT underestimated survival at
5 years among patients with ER-negative tumours.Conclusions:PREDICT is a useful
tool for providing reliable long-term (10-year) survival estimates for younger
patients. However, for more accurate short-term estimates, the model requires
further calibration using more data from young onset cases. Short-term prediction
may be most relevant for the increasing number of women considering risk-reducing
bilateral mastectomy.British Journal of Cancer advance online publication, 12
February 2015; doi:10.1038/bjc.2015.57 www.bjcancer.com.

PMID: 25675148  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


41. Chest. 2015 Feb 12. doi: 10.1378/chest.14-2765. [Epub ahead of print]

The Impact of Visceral Pleural Invasion In Node-negative Non-small-cell Lung
cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.

Jiang L, Liang W, Shen J, Chen X, Shi X, He J, Yang C, He J.

Background: Visceral pleural invasion (VPI) is considered an aggressive and
invasive factor in Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Recent studies found that 
VPI, dependent on tumor size, influenced T stage, but there is no consensus on
whether VPI is important in node-negative NSCLC. In addition, its role in stage
IB NSCLC is still uncertain. This meta-analysis sought to assess the role of VPI 
in node-negative NSCLC according to different tumor sizes and especially in stage
IB disease.
Methods: A systematic literature search was performed on four databases (EBSCO,
Pubmed, OVID and Springer) to find relevant articles. The primary endpoint was
5-year overall survival. Pooled Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated using control
as a reference group and significance was determined by the Z test.
Results: Thirteen relevant studies with a total of 27171 patients were included
in this study. The number of patients with VPI was 5821 (21%). VPI was proved a
significant adverse prognostic factor in patients with tumor size≤3cm (OR
0.71,95% CI 0.64 to 0.79; p<0.001), tumor size>3, but≤5cm (OR 0.69, 95% CI 0.56
to 0.86; p<0.001) and tumor size>5, but≤7cm (OR 0.70, 95% CI 0.54 to 0.91;
p=0.007). A further comparison was made with stage IB NSCLC. Tumor size≤3cm with 
VPI was found to have a better survival than tumor size>3, but≤5cm regardless of 
VPI (OR 1.31, 95% CI 1.19 to 1.45; p<0.001). Exploratory analysis found no
survival benefit between tumor size≤3cm with VPI and tumor size>3, but≤5cm
without VPI (OR 1.16, 95% CI 0.95 to 1.43; p=0.15); however, the prognosis for
tumor size>3, but≤5cm with VPI was not as good as the prognosis of those with
tumor size≤3cm with VPI.
Conclusion: VPI together with tumor size has a synergistic effect on survival in 
node-negative NSCLC. Stage IB NSCLC patients with larger tumor size with VPI
might be considered for adjuvant chemo after surgical resection and need
carefully preoperative evaluation and postoperative follow-up. Further randomized
clinical trials that can determinate the impact of adjuvant chemo on IB patients 
with VPI are warranted.

PMID: 25675151  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


42. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 12;2:CD008779. [Epub ahead of print]

Chinese herbal medicines for hypothyroidism.

Ke LQ(1), Hu Y, Yang K, Tong N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, West China Hospital, Sichuan
University, No. 37, Guo Xue Xiang, Chengdu, Sichuan, China, 610041.

BACKGROUND: The reduced production of thyroid hormones is the main feature of the
clinical state termed hypothyroidism. In Chinese philosophical and medical
theory, it results from Yang deficiency. Chinese herbal medicines (CHM) are
thought to restore Yang and have been used in China to treat hypothyroidism for
many years.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of CHM for hypothyroidism.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Chinese
Biomedical Literature Database on Disc, and the China National Knowledge
Infrastructure for randomised clinical trials (RCTs). The date of the last search
was September 2014 for all databases. We also searched for ongoing trials in
trial registers.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered RCTs of CHM alone or combined with thyroid
hormone therapy compared with no treatment, placebo or thyroid hormone therapy.
We also planned to compare different formulae of CHM with each other, alone or
combined with thyroid hormone therapy. Hypothyroid individuals had to be
diagnosed by the standard criteria valid at the time of the beginning of the
trial regardless of the cause of hypothyroidism.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data extraction and risk of bias assessment were
not performed because no study could be included.
MAIN RESULTS: We found no RCTs and therefore could not establish the effects of
CHM on hypothyroidism.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Currently, there is no evidence available from RCTs on CHM 
for the treatment of hypothyroidism. We also did not find any ongoing registered 
trial.

PMID: 25675108  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


43. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2015 Feb 12:0. [Epub ahead of print]

Health-promoting Effects of the Citrus Flavanone Hesperidin.

Li C(1), Schluesener H.

Author information: 
(1)a Division of Immunopathology of the Nervous System, Department of
Neuropathology, Institute of Pathology and Neuropathology , University of
Tuebingen , Calwer Str. 3, D-72076 Tuebingen , Germany.

Hesperidin, a member of the flavanone group of flavonoids, can be isolated in
large amounts from the rinds of some citrus species. Considering the wide range
of pharmacological activities and widespread application of hesperidin, this
paper reviews preclinical and clinical trials of hesperidin and its related
compounds, including their occurrence, pharmacokinetics, and some marketed
products available. Preclinical studies and clinical trials demonstrated
therapeutical effects of hesperidin and its aglycone hesperetin in various
diseases, such as neurological disorders, psychiatric disorders and
cardiovascular diseases and others, due to its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant,
lipid-lowering and insulin-sensitizing properties.

PMID: 25675136  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


44. Curr Med Res Opin. 2015 Feb 12:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Observational study of adjuvant therapy with capecitabine in colon cancer.

Steffens CC(1), Tschechne B, Schardt C, Jacobs G, Valdix AR, Schmidt P, Hansen R,
Kröning H, Wohlfarth T, Guggenberger D.

Author information: 
(1)MVZ Hämatologie/Onkologie Klinik Dr. Hancken , Stade , Germany.

Abstract Objective: This observational study was conducted to document the safety
of capecitabine-based adjuvant therapy in patients with resected colon cancer
under routine clinical conditions. Research and design methods: ML20431 was a
prospective, multicenter, non-interventional, observational study. It was
designed to answer five research questions relating to safety, dosage and
administration, and discontinuation from capecitabine-based adjuvant therapy.
Patients were required to have R0 resected stage III colon cancer and have
started treatment with capecitabine-based adjuvant therapy based on a decision by
the investigator. Patients were followed over an observation period of ≤6 months 
after initiation of therapy. Investigators were required to complete the study
case report form at study entry, each treatment cycle, and at the final
examination. Main outcome measures: A total of 1485 patients were included in the
study, and 1481 patients were treated with capecitabine and formed the analysis
population. Most patients had colon cancer (78.3%), followed by rectal cancer
(16.4%). Most patients had stage III disease (69.3%); the remaining patients had 
stage II disease (30.7%). The most common all-grade adverse reactions were
hand-foot syndrome (46.9%), diarrhea (34.4%), and hemoglobin decreases (31.5%).
Grade 3/4 adverse reactions were infrequent (<4%). Serious adverse events were
reported in 96 patients (6.5%). Six or more cycles of treatment were completed by
77.9% of patients. Approximately two-thirds of patients (67.3%) received
capecitabine monotherapy and the remainder (32.7%) received capecitabine in
combination with ≥1 drugs, most commonly oxaliplatin (460 cases). Discontinuation
of capecitabine was documented in 344 patients (23.2%). Study limitations: no
efficacy data were collected; the questionnaires for patients' expectations and
satisfaction were not formally validated; and a few patients (<1.5%) had some
retrospective data. Conclusions: The safety profile of capecitabine-based
adjuvant therapy in a broad patient population with colon cancer is similar to
that previously documented in phase III clinical trials.

PMID: 25651480  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


45. Drugs. 2015 Feb 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Tedizolid: A Novel Oxazolidinone with Potent Activity Against Multidrug-Resistant
Gram-Positive Pathogens.

Zhanel GG(1), Love R, Adam H, Golden A, Zelenitsky S, Schweizer F, Gorityala B,
Lagacé-Wiens PR, Rubinstein E, Walkty A, Gin AS, Gilmour M, Hoban DJ, Lynch JP
3rd, Karlowsky JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada, ggzhanel@pcs.mb.ca.

Tedizolid phosphate is a novel oxazolidinone prodrug (converted to the active
form tedizolid by phosphatases in vivo) that has been developed and recently
approved (June 2014) by the United States FDA for the treatment of acute
bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSIs) caused by susceptible
Gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA). Tedizolid is an oxazolidinone, but differs from other oxazolidinones by
possessing a modified side chain at the C-5 position of the oxazolidinone nucleus
which confers activity against certain linezolid-resistant pathogens and has an
optimized C- and D-ring system that improves potency through additional binding
site interactions. The mechanism of action of tedizolid is similar to other
oxazolidinones and occurs through inhibition of bacterial protein synthesis by
binding to 23S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) of the 50S subunit of the ribosome. As with
other oxazolidinones, the spontaneous frequency of resistance development to
tedizolid is low. Tedizolid is four- to eightfold more potent in vivo than
linezolid against all species of staphylococci, enterococci, and streptococci,
including drug-resistant phenotypes such as MRSA and vancomycin-resistant
enterococci (VRE) and linezolid-resistant phenotypes. Importantly, tedizolid
demonstrates activity against linezolid-resistant bacterial strains harboring the
horizontally transmissible cfr gene, in the absence of certain ribosomal
mutations conferring reduced oxazolidinone susceptibility. With its half-life of 
approximately 12 h, tedizolid is dosed once daily. It demonstrates linear
pharmacokinetics, has a high oral bioavailability of approximately 90 %, and is
primarily excreted by the liver as an inactive, non-circulating sulphate
conjugate. Tedizolid does not require dosage adjustment in patients with any
degree of renal dysfunction or hepatic dysfunction. Studies in animals have
demonstrated that the pharmacodynamic parameter most closely associated with the 
efficacy of tedizolid is fAUC0-24h/MIC. In non-neutropenic animals, a
dose-response enhancement was observed with tedizolid and lower exposures were
required compared to neutropenic cohorts. Two Phase III clinical trials have
demonstrated non-inferiority of a once-daily tedizolid 200 mg dose for 6-10 days 
versus twice-daily 600 mg linezolid for the treatment of ABSSSIs. Both trials
used the primary endpoint of early clinical response at 48-72 h; however, one
trial compared oral formulations while the other initiated therapy with the
parenteral formulation and allowed oral sequential therapy following initial
clinical response. Throughout its development, tedizolid has demonstrated that it
is well tolerated and animal studies have shown a lower propensity for
neuropathies with long-term use than its predecessor linezolid. Data from the two
completed Phase III clinical trials demonstrated that the studied tedizolid
regimen (200 mg once daily for 6 days) had significantly less impact on
hematologic parameters as well as significantly less gastrointestinal
treatment-emergent adverse effects (TEAEs) than its comparator linezolid. As with
linezolid, tedizolid is a weak, reversible MAO inhibitor; however, a murine head 
twitch model validated to assess serotonergic activity reported no increase in
the number of head twitches with tedizolid even at doses that exceeded the C max 
in humans by up to 25-fold. Tyramine and pseudoephedrine challenge studies in
humans have also reported no meaningful MAO-related interactions with tedizolid. 
With its enhanced in vitro activity against a broad-spectrum of Gram-positive
aerobic bacteria, convenient once-daily dosing, a short 6-day course of therapy, 
availability of both oral and intravenous routes of administration, and an
adverse effect profile that appears to be more favorable than linezolid,
tedizolid is an attractive agent for use in both the hospital and community
settings. Tedizolid is currently undergoing additional Phase III clinical trials 
for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia (HABP) and ventilated 
nosocomial pneumonia (VNP).

PMID: 25673021  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


46. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2015 Feb 12:1-10. [Epub ahead of print]

How statistical deception created the appearance that statins are safe and
effective in primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease.

Diamond DM(1), Ravnskov U.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Service, Veterans Hospital, Tampa, 33612 FL, USA.

We have provided a critical assessment of research on the reduction of
cholesterol levels by statin treatment to reduce cardiovascular disease. Our
opinion is that although statins are effective at reducing cholesterol levels,
they have failed to substantially improve cardiovascular outcomes. We have
described the deceptive approach statin advocates have deployed to create the
appearance that cholesterol reduction results in an impressive reduction in
cardiovascular disease outcomes through their use of a statistical tool called
relative risk reduction (RRR), a method which amplifies the trivial beneficial
effects of statins. We have also described how the directors of the clinical
trials have succeeded in minimizing the significance of the numerous adverse
effects of statin treatment.

PMID: 25672965  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


47. Hum Gene Ther Clin Dev. 2015 Feb 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Translational Data from Adeno-Associated Virus-Mediated Gene Therapy of
Hemophilia B in Dogs.

Nichols TC(1), Whitford MH, Arruda VR, Stedman HH, Kay MA, High KA.

Author information: 
(1)1 Francis Owen Blood Research Laboratory, Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill , Chapel Hill,
NC 27516.

Preclinical testing of new therapeutic strategies in relevant animal models is an
essential part of drug development. The choice of animal models of disease that
are used in these studies is driven by the strength of the translational data for
informing about safety, efficacy, and success or failure of human clinical
trials. Hemophilia B is a monogenic, X-linked, inherited bleeding disorder that
results from absent or dysfunctional coagulation factor IX (FIX). Regarding
preclinical studies of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene therapy for
hemophilia B, dogs with severe hemophilia B (<1% FIX) provide well-characterized 
phenotypes and genotypes in which a species-specific transgene can be expressed
in a mixed genetic background. Correction of the hemophilic coagulopathy by
sustained expression of FIX, reduction of bleeding events, and a comprehensive
assessment of the humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to the expressed
transgene and recombinant AAV vector are all feasible end points in these dogs.
This review compares the preclinical studies of AAV vectors used to treat dogs
with hemophilia B with the results obtained in subsequent human clinical trials
using muscle- and liver-based approaches.

PMID: 25675273  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


48. Int J Colorectal Dis. 2015 Feb 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Safety of supervised trainee-performed laparoscopic surgery for inflammatory
bowel disease.

Celentano V(1), Finch D, Forster L, Robinson JM, Griffith JP.

Author information: 
(1)Colorectal Unit, Bradford Royal Infirmary, Bradford, UK,
valeriocelentano@yahoo.it.

PURPOSE: There is a significant risk of surgical resection during the lifetime of
an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patient: laparoscopic surgery has been
increasingly applied to the management of IBD with short and long-term
advantages. The aim of this study is to demonstrate that laparoscopic surgery for
IBD, performed by a surgical trainee under the supervision of an experienced
trainer, is feasible and safe.
METHODS: All surgical procedures were sub-divided in six critical steps in order 
to define the procedure as supervised trainee performed (STP) when the trainer
was present unscrubbed in the theatre or assisting and trainer performed (TNER)
when the trainer performed two or more critical steps of the procedure. Included 
were all patients undergoing laparoscopic resection for IBD between January 2009 
and December 2013. Thirty-day mortality and morbidity were the primary outcomes. 
Reoperations and rehospitalizations within 30 days of discharge were recorded
prospectively and were the secondary outcomes together with conversion rate and
length of hospital stay.
RESULTS: One hundred fifty-one patients were included: 77 (50.99 %) STP and 74
(49.01 %) TNER. No deaths occurred, and 30-day morbidity was 27.15 % with no
differences between the groups. Operating time was longer in the STP
(166.6 ± 53.31 vs 130.4 ± 49.15). Five patients (2 vs 3) required reoperation
(3.31 %), while 13 patients (8.6 %) required readmission.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic surgery for IBD performed by a supervised trainee is
safe compared to trainers performed procedures despite a longer operating time.
Randomized clinical trials are needed to confirm these preliminary results and to
investigate long-term outcomes.

PMID: 25669758  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


49. J Neural Transm. 2015 Feb 12. [Epub ahead of print]

The metabolism hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease: from the concept of central
insulin resistance and associated consequences to insulin therapy.

Morgen K(1), Frölich L.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute of Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg
University, J5, 68159, Mannheim, Germany, Katrin.Morgen@zi-mannheim.de.

The concept of central insulin resistance and dysfunctional insulin signaling in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been developed by Siegfried Hoyer in 1985-2000. It
is widely recognized that a cerebrometabolic deficiency is one of the most
relevant proximate characteristics of sporadic AD, including functional deficits 
in oxidative glucose breakdown, oxidative stress and amplifying the action of
glucocorticoids in the brain. Insulin and insulin receptors are widely
distributed in the brain and are impaired in the post-mortem Alzheimer brain.
Functionally, altered insulin signaling may promote synaptic dysfunction and
impaired connectivity, especially in highly connected and metabolically active
regions of the brain, which in turn predisposes towards AD pathology. Thus, the
hypothesis has been proposed that defects in the brain insulin signal
transduction system and associated consequences, e.g., oxidative stress, are
centrally involved in the etiopathogenesis of sporadic AD. Most importantly, in a
research field still awaiting substantial progress in therapeutic options, the
idea of AD as a brain type of diabetes mellitus is now being translated into
clinical trials with promising early results.

PMID: 25673434  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


50. Matern Child Health J. 2015 Feb 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Preventing Perinatal Depression in High Risk Women: Moving the Mothers and Babies
Course from Clinical Trials to Community Implementation.

Le HN(1), Perry DF, Mendelson T, Tandon SD, Muñoz RF.

Author information: 
(1)George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA, hnle@gwu.edu.

A growing research literature highlights the public health need for preventive
interventions to reduce symptoms and incidence of perinatal depression among
vulnerable populations. The Mothers and Babies (MB) course is a
cognitive-behavioral intervention designed to teach mood regulation skills to
English- and Spanish-speaking low-income women at high risk for perinatal
depression. We describe the development of the MB course and evaluate the extent 
to which research findings support efficacy, effectiveness, and dissemination
based on the Society for Prevention Research Standards Committee's standards of
evidence. Our review of research and implementation activities suggests that the 
MB intervention demonstrates promising evidence for efficacy in reducing
depressive symptoms; empirical support for prevention of major depressive
episodes is still preliminary. Work is in progress to evaluate program
effectiveness and prepare for broad dissemination and implementation. The MB
course shows promise as an intervention for low-income women at risk for
perinatal mood issues. Spanish and English intervention materials have been
developed that can be delivered in different settings (hospitals, home visiting),
in different dosages (6, 8, or 12 sessions), and via different modalities (group,
individual). Evaluating the MB course against current standards is intended to
inform other prevention intervention development research.

PMID: 25673369  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


51. Surg Endosc. 2015 Feb 12. [Epub ahead of print]

OpenHELP (Heidelberg laparoscopy phantom): development of an open-source surgical
evaluation and training tool.

Kenngott HG(1), Wünscher JJ, Wagner M, Preukschas A, Wekerle AL, Neher P,
Suwelack S, Speidel S, Nickel F, Oladokun D, Maier-Hein L, Dillmann R, Meinzer
HP, Müller-Stich BP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General, Visceral and Transplantation Surgery, University of
Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 110, 69120, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Apart from animal testing and clinical trials, surgical research and 
laparoscopic training mainly rely on phantoms. The aim of this project was to
design a phantom with realistic anatomy and haptic characteristics, modular
design and easy reproducibility. The phantom was named open-source Heidelberg
laparoscopic phantom (OpenHELP) and serves as an open-source platform.
METHODS: The phantom was based on an anonymized CT scan of a male patient. The
anatomical structures were segmented to obtain digital three-dimensional models
of the torso and the organs. The digital models were materialized via rapid
prototyping. One flexible, using an elastic abdominal wall, and one rigid method,
using a plastic shell, to simulate pneumoperitoneum were developed. Artificial
organ production was carried out sequentially starting from raw gypsum models to 
silicone molds to final silicone casts. The reproduction accuracy was exemplarily
evaluated for ten silicone rectum models by comparing the digital 3D surface of
the original rectum with CT scan by calculating the root mean square error of
surface variations. Haptic realism was also evaluated to find the most realistic 
silicone compositions on a visual analog scale (VAS, 0-10).
RESULTS: The rigid and durable plastic torso and soft silicone organs of the
abdominal cavity were successfully produced. A simulation of pneumoperitoneum
could be created successfully by both methods. The reproduction accuracy of ten
silicone rectum models showed an average root mean square error of 2.26 (0-11.48)
mm. Haptic realism revealed an average value on a VAS of 7.25 (5.2-9.6) for the
most realistic rectum.
CONCLUSION: The OpenHELP phantom proved to be feasible and accurate. The phantom 
was consecutively applied frequently in the field of computer-assisted surgery at
our institutions and is accessible as an open-source project at www.open-cas.org 
for the academic community.

PMID: 25673345  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


52. Surg Today. 2015 Feb 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of NF-κB inhibition on chemoresistance in biliary-pancreatic cancer.

Uwagawa T(1), Yanaga K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, The Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan, 
uwatadashi@msn.com.

Biliary cancer and pancreatic cancer are considered to be difficult diseases to
cure. Although complete resection provides the only means of curing these
cancers, the rate of resectability is not high. Therefore, chemotherapy is often 
selected in patients with advanced unresectable biliary-pancreatic cancer. Many
combination chemotherapy regimens have been applied in clinical trials. However, 
the survival time is not satisfactory. On the other hand, most chemotherapeutic
agents induce anti-apoptotic transcriptional factor nuclear factor kappa b
(NF-κB) activation, and agent-induced NF-κB activation is deeply involved in the 
onset of chemoresistance. Recently, novel approaches to potentiating
chemosensitivity in cases of biliary-pancreatic cancer using NF-κB inhibitors
with cytotoxic agents have been reported, most of which comprise translational
research, although some clinical trials have also been conducted. Nevertheless,
to date, there is no breakthrough chemotherapy regimen for these diseases. As
some reports show promising data, combination chemotherapy consisting of a NF-κB 
inhibitor with chemotherapeutic agents seems to improve chemosensitivity and
prolong the survival time of biliary-pancreatic cancer patients.

PMID: 25673034  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


53. Thromb Haemost. 2015 Feb 12;113(5). [Epub ahead of print]

Early stent thrombosis with bivalirudin in patients undergoing percutaneous
coronary intervention. A meta-analysis of randomised clinical trials.

Piccolo R, De Biase C, D'Anna C, Trimarco B, Piscione F, Galasso G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gennaro Galasso, MD, PhD, Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Via S.
Pansini, 5. 80131. Naples, Italy, Tel.: +390817462234, Fax: +390817462229.,
E-mail: gengalas@unina.it.

Although bivalirudin has been shown to reduce bleeding events in patients
undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention, residual concerns remain about a
possible higher risk of early (within 30 days) stent thrombosis (ST). Therefore, 
we performed a meta-analysis of randomised trials reporting ST events with
bivalirudin compared to other antithrombotic therapies (heparins ± glycoprotein
IIb/IIIa inhibitors). A systematic literature search of electronic resources was 
performed though May, 2014. The primary endpoint was definite early ST, according
to Academic Research Consortium criteria. Secondary endpoints included: all-cause
death, myocardial infarction and major bleeding. A total of 11 trials, including 
16,415 patients, were accrued. Compared to other regimens, bivalirudin
significantly increased the risk of early ST (odds ratio [OR]=1.80; 95 %
confidence interval [CI], 1.28-2.52; p=0.0007) and reduced the risk of major
bleeding (OR [95 %CI]=0.64 [0.51-0.82], p=0.0003), with a comparable risk of
mortality or myocardial infarction. The higher risk of early ST was mainly
attributable to acute (OR [95 % CI] =4.33 [2.33-8.05], p < 0.001) than subacute
(OR [95 % CI] =0.89 [0.53-1.50], p =0.67) ST events (p for interaction < 0.001). 
Non-fatal myocardial infarction was the most common presentation (83 %) of early 
ST events, while death occurred infrequently (about 5 %). In conclusion, in
patients undergoing PCI, bivalirudin compared to heparins is associated with a
higher risk of early ST, which is mainly related to more frequent acute events.
Further studies are required to evaluate alternative strategies to mitigate this 
risk, without hampering the benefits derived from the reduction in bleeding
events with bivalirudin.

PMID: 25673109  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


54. Cancer Discov. 2015 Feb 11. pii: CD-14-1518. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical acquired resistance to RAF inhibitor combinations in BRAF-mutant
colorectal cancer through MAPK pathway alterations.

Ahronian LG(1), Sennott EM(1), Van Allen EM(2), Wagle N(2), Kwak EL(1), Faris
JE(1), Godfrey JT(1), Nishimura K(1), Lynch KD(3), Mermel CH(1), Lockerman EL(1),
Kalsy A(1), Gurski JM Jr(1), Bahl S(4), Anderka K(4), Green LM(4), Lennon NJ(4), 
Huynh TG(3), Mino-Kenudson M(3), Getz G(1), Dias-Santagata D(3), Iafrate AJ(3),
Engelman JA(1), Garraway LA(2), Corcoran RB(5).

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center. (2)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.
(3)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School. (4)Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard. 
(5)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center rbcorcoran@partners.org.

BRAF mutations occur in ~10% of colorectal cancer (CRC). While RAF inhibitor
monotherapy is highly effective in BRAF-mutant melanoma, response rates in
BRAF-mutant CRC are poor. Recent clinical trials of combined RAF/EGFR or RAF/MEK 
inhibition have produced improved efficacy, but patients ultimately develop
resistance. To identify molecular alterations driving clinical acquired
resistance, we performed whole-exome sequencing on paired pre-treatment and
post-progression tumor biopsies from BRAF-mutant CRC patients treated with RAF
inhibitor combinations. We identified alterations in MAPK pathway genes in
resistant tumors not present in matched pre-treatment tumors, including KRAS
amplification, BRAF amplification, and a MEK1 mutation. These alterations
conferred resistance to RAF/EGFR or RAF/MEK combinations through sustained MAPK
pathway activity, but an ERK inhibitor could suppress MAPK activity and overcome 
resistance. Identification of MAPK pathway reactivating alterations upon clinical
acquired resistance underscores the MAPK pathway as a critical target in
BRAF-mutant CRC and suggests therapeutic options to overcome resistance.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25673644  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


55. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Feb 11. pii: canimm.0179.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeting Interleukin-2 to the Bone Marrow Stroma for Therapy of Acute Myeloid
Leukemia Relapsing After Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation.

Schliemann C(1), Gutbrodt KL(2), Kerkhoff A(1), Pohlen M(1), Wiebe S(1), Silling 
G(1), Angenendt L(1), Kessler T(1), Mesters RM(1), Giovannoni L(3), Schaefers
M(4), Altvater B(5), Rossig C(5), Gruenewald I(6), Wardelmann E(6), Koehler G(7),
Neri D(8), Stelljes M(9), Berdel WE(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine A, University Hospital Muenster. (2)Department of
Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich. 
(3)Philogen S.p.A., Philogen S.p.A. (4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University
Hospital Muenster. (5)Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Childrens
Hospital Muenster. (6)Gerhard-Domagk-Institute for Pathology, University Hospital
Muenster. (7)Institute of Pathology, General HospitalFulda. (8)Department of
Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Swiss
Federal Institute of Technology Zurich. (9)Dept. of Medicine A, University
Hospital Muenster. (10)Department of Medicine/Hematology Oncology, University of 
Muenster berdel@uni-muenster.de.

The antibody-based delivery of interleukin-2 (IL-2) to extracellular targets
expressed in the easily accessible tumor-associated vasculature has shown potent 
anti-leukemic activity in xenograft and immunocompetent murine models of acute
myeloid leukemia (AML), especially in combination with cytarabine. Here, we
report our experiences in four patients with relapsed AML after allogeneic
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT), who were treated with the
immunocytokine F16-IL2, in combination with low-dose cytarabine (LDAC). One
patient with disseminated extramedullary AML lesions achieved a complete
metabolic response in PET/CT, which lasted three months. Two out of three
patients with bone marrow (BM) relapse achieved a blast reduction with transient 
molecular negativity. One of the two enjoyed a short complete remission before
AML relapse occurred two months after the first infusion of F16-IL2. In line with
a site-directed delivery of the cytokine, F16-IL2 led to an extensive
infiltration of immune effector cells in the BM. Grade 2 fevers were the only
non-hematological side effects in two patients. Grade 3 cytokine-release syndrome
developed in the other two patients, but was manageable in both cases with
glucocorticoids. The concept of specifically targeting IL-2 to the
leukemia-associated stroma deserves further evaluation in clinical trials,
especially in patients who relapse after allo-HSCT.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25672398  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


56. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Feb 11. pii: canimm.0211.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

Adenosine receptor 2A blockade increases the efficacy of anti-PD-1 through
enhanced anti-tumor T cell responses.

Beavis PA(1), Milenkovski N(1), Henderson MA(1), John LB(1), Allard B(2), Loi
S(1), Kershaw MH(1), Stagg J(2), Darcy PK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Immunology Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Research Centre. (2)Institut
du Cancer de Montréal, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université 
de Montréal. (3)Cancer Immunology Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Research Centre
phil.darcy@petermac.org.

Immunotherapy is rapidly emerging as a cancer treatment with high potential.
Recent clinical trials with anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1/PDL-1 antibodies (mAbs)
suggest that targeting multiple immunosuppressive pathways may significantly
improve patient survival. The generation of adenosine by CD73 also suppresses
anti-tumor immune responses through the activation of A2A receptors on T cells
and NK cells. We sought to determine whether blockade of A2A receptors could
enhance the efficacy of anti-PD-1 mAb. The expression of CD73 by tumor cells
limited the efficacy of anti-PD-1 mAb in two tumor models and this was alleviated
with concomitant treatment with an A2A adenosine receptor antagonist. The
blockade of PD-1 enhanced A2A receptor expression on tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T
cells, making them more susceptible to A2A mediated suppression. Thus, dual
blockade of PD-1 and A2A significantly enhanced the expression of IFNγ and
Granzyme B by tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells and accordingly, increased growth
inhibition of CD73+ tumors and survival of mice. Our study indicates that CD73
expression may constitute a potential biomarker for the efficacy of anti-PD-1 mAb
in cancer patients and that the efficacy of anti-PD-1 mAb can be significantly
enhanced by A2A antagonists. We have therefore revealed a potentially novel
biomarker for the efficacy of anti-PD-1 that warrants further investigation in
patients. Our studies utilized SYN-115, a drug that has already undergone phase
IIb testing in Parkinson's Disease and so our findings therefore have immediate
translational relevance for cancer patients.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25672397  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


57. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 11;2:CD006927. [Epub ahead of print]

Statins for age-related macular degeneration.

Gehlbach P(1), Li T, Hatef E.

Author information: 
(1)Retina Division, Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, 1550 Orleans Street, Cancer Research Building #2, Baltimore, Maryland, 
USA, 21231.

BACKGROUND: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive late onset
disorder of the macula affecting central vision. Age-related macular degeneration
is the leading cause of blindness in people over 65 years in industrialized
countries. Recent epidemiologic, genetic, and pathological evidence has shown AMD
shares a number of risk factors with atherosclerosis, leading to the hypothesis
that statins may exert protective effects in AMD.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review was to examine the effectiveness of
statins compared with other treatments, no treatment, or placebo in delaying the 
onset and progression of AMD.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision 
Group Trials Register) (2014, Issue 6), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In-Process and
Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to
June 2014), EMBASE (January 1980 to June 2014), Latin American and Caribbean
Health Sciences Literature Database (LILACS) (January 1982 to June 2014), PubMed 
(January 1946 to June 2014), the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT)
(www.controlled-trials.com), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov), and the
WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP)
(www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions
in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the electronic databases 
on 5 June 2014.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared
statins with other treatments, no treatment, or placebo in participants who were 
either susceptible to or diagnosed as having early stages of AMD.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological procedures expected
by The Cochrane Collaboration. Two authors independently evaluated the search
results against the selection criteria, abstracted data, and assessed risk of
bias. We did not perform meta-analysis due to heterogeneity in the interventions 
and outcomes among the included studies.
MAIN RESULTS: Two RCTs with 144 total participants met the selection criteria.
Both trials compared simvastatin versus placebo in older people (> 50 or 60
years) with high risk of developing AMD (drusen present on examination). The
larger trial with 114 participants was conducted in Australia and used a higher
dose (40 mg daily) of simvastatin for three years. Participants and study
personnel in this trial were adequately masked; however, data were missing for
30% of participants at three years follow-up. The smaller trial of 30
participants was conducted in Italy and used a lower dose (20 mg) of simvastatin 
for three months. This trial reported insufficient details to assess the risk of 
bias.Neither trial reported data for change in visual acuity. Analysis of 30
participants in the smaller trial did not show a statistically significant
difference between the simvastatin and placebo groups in visual acuity values at 
three months of treatment (decimal visual acuity 0.21 ± 0.56 in simvastatin group
and 0.19 ± 0.40 in placebo group) or 45 days after the completion of treatment
(decimal visual acuity 0.20 ± 0.50 in simvastatin group and 0.19 ± 0.48 in
placebo group). The lack of a difference in visual acuity was not explained by
lens or retina status, which remained unchanged during and after the treatment
period for both groups.Preliminary analyses of 42 participants who had completed 
12 months follow-up in the larger trial did not show a statistically significant 
difference between simvastatin and the placebo groups for visual acuity, drusen
score, or visual function (effect estimates and confidence intervals were not
available). Complete data for these outcomes at three years follow-up were not
reported. At three years, the effect of simvastatin in slowing progression of AMD
compared with placebo was uncertain (odds ratio 0.51, 95% confidence interval
0.23 to 1.09).One trial did not report adverse outcomes. The second trial
reported no difference between groups in terms of adverse events such as death,
muscle aches, and acute hepatitis.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Evidence from currently available RCTs is insufficient to
conclude that statins have a role in preventing or delaying the onset or
progression of AMD.

PMID: 25675254  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


58. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 11;2:CD001902. [Epub ahead of print]

Early versus late antiepileptic drug withdrawal for people with epilepsy in
remission.

Strozzi I(1), Nolan SJ, Sperling MR, Wingerchuk DM, Sirven J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, Institute of Translational 
Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK, L9 7LJ.

BACKGROUND: Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disorder which affects millions of
people around the world. Antiepileptic drugs (AED) are the main interventions
used to prevent seizures and control epilepsy. Although effective in most cases, 
AEDs are related to long-term adverse effects, such as cognitive and behavioural 
alterations. Thus when epilepsy is in remission, it may be in the individual's
best interest to discontinue medication. However, the optimal timing of AED
discontinuation is still unknown.This is an updated version of the original
Cochrane review published in Issue 3, 2001.
OBJECTIVES: (1) To quantify and compare risk of seizure recurrence, status
epilepticus and mortality after early and late AED discontinuation in adult and
pediatric epilepsy patients.(2) To assess which variables modify the risk of
seizure recurrence.(3) To define a subpopulation in which early AED
discontinuation is safe.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Epilepsy Group Specialised Register
(June 2014); CENTRAL (Issue 5, The Cochrane Library, May 2014); MEDLINE (1946 to 
June 2014); CINAHL (23 June 2014); Scopus (1823 to June 2014); ClinicalTrials.gov
(23 June 2014); and WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (23 June 
2014). We also checked the reference lists of studies found through the
electronic searches.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials that evaluate withdrawal of AEDs
after varying periods of seizure remission in adults and children with epilepsy. 
Included studies compared an early AED discontinuation time (defined as a period 
of remission of seizures of less than two years) versus a late AED
discontinuation time (defined as a period of remission of seizures of more than
two years).
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently extracted data and
assessed trial quality. Risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) was
calculated for each trial. Summary RRs and 95% CIs for dichotomous data were
calculated using a fixed-effect model. A test of statistical heterogeneity was
conducted for each pooled risk ratio calculation. Each included study underwent a
'Risk of bias' assessment, based on the Cochrane Handbook recommendations, and we
examined the overall quality of information through the GRADE system, presented
in two 'Summary of Findings' tables.
MAIN RESULTS: Five trials were included in this review, representing 924
randomised children with epilepsy, all under 16 years of age at randomisation,
with a median follow-up of 5.6 years. No eligible trial evaluated adults or
assessed mortality or status epilepticus as outcomes. The pooled risk ratio for
seizure relapse after AED withdrawal was 1.34 (95% CI 1.13 to 1.59, P = 0.0007). 
Conforming to this estimate, the number needed to harm, that is expose an
individual to a higher risk of seizure relapse because of early withdrawal of
AED, is 8 (95% CI 5 to 20). Early discontinuation was associated with greater
relapse rates in people with partial seizures with a pooled risk ratio of 1.51
(95% CI 0.97 to 2.35, P = 0.07). Absence type epilepsy showed a lower risk of
relapse. Variables associated with higher risk of seizure relapse were abnormal
EEG findings (pooled RR 1.44, 95% CI 1.13 to 1.83, P = 0.003), especially
epileptiform activity (RR 2.58, 95% CI 2.03 to 3.28, P < 0.0001); epilepsy onset 
before 2 years or after 10 years of age; history of status epilepticus;
intellectual disability (IQ < 70); and high seizure frequency before and during
treatment. Gender and family history did not show any significant influence over 
seizure relapse. Overall, the included trials were classified as low or unclear
risk of bias where methodological information was not reported and could not be
provided by original study authors.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence to support waiting for at least two
seizure-free years before discontinuing AEDs in children, particularly if
individuals have an abnormal EEG or partial seizures, or both. There is
insufficient evidence to establish when to withdraw AEDs in children with
generalised seizures. There is no evidence to guide the timing of withdrawal of
AEDs in seizure-free adults. Further high-quality randomised controlled trials
are needed, particularly recruiting adults and recruiting those with generalised 
seizure types, to identify the optimal timing of AED withdrawal and risk factors 
predictive of relapse.

PMID: 25675111  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


59. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol. 2015 Feb 11. [Epub ahead of print]

Topical hemostatic agents and dressings in the prehospital setting.

Grissom TE(1), Fang R.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Anesthesiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, R.
Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center bU.S. Air Force Center for the Sustainment of
Trauma and Readiness Skills, R. Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center, Baltimore,
Maryland, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Death from exsanguinating hemorrhage remains a priority in the
management of combat casualties and civilian trauma patients with truncal and
junctional injuries. Appropriate use of hemostatic agents and dressings in the
prehospital setting may allow for earlier control and an improved survival rate.
RECENT FINDINGS: Third-generation chitosan-based hemostatic agents and dressings 
appear to be equally efficacious to the dressing currently deployed by the US
military forces in the management of hemorrhage not amenable to tourniquet
placement. Unfortunately, a lack of clinical trials places a heavy reliance on
anecdotal reports and laboratory studies in agent selection and application.
SUMMARY: Efficacy of currently available hemostatic agents and dressings appears 
to have plateaued in recent years although new agents and delivery mechanisms
under development may improve control in cases of severe hemorrhage.

PMID: 25674988  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


60. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2015 Feb 11. doi: 10.1038/ejcn.2014.296. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of vitamin E supplementation on serum C-reactive protein level: a
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.

Saboori S(1), Shab-Bidar S(2), Speakman JR(3), Yousefi Rad E(1), Djafarian K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Nutrition, School of Nutritional Sciences
and Dietetics, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Department
of Community Nutrition, School of Nutritional Sciences and Dietetics, Tehran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (3)Institute of Genetics and
Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China and Institute 
of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK.
(4)Department of Clinical Nutrition, School of Nutritional Sciences and
Dietetics, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of chronic inflammation, has a major role in
the etiology of chronic disease. Vitamin E may have anti-inflammatory effects.
However, there is no consensus on the effects of vitamin E supplementation on CRP
levels in clinical trials. The aim of this study was to systematically review
randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that report on the effects of vitamin E
supplementation (α- and γ-tocopherols) on CRP levels. A systematic search of RCTs
was conducted on Medline and EMBASE through PubMed, Scopus, Ovid and Science
Direct, and completed by a manual review of the literature up to May 2014. Pooled
effects were estimated by using random-effects models and heterogeneity was
assessed by Cochran's Q and I(2) tests. Subgroup analyses and meta-regression
analyses were also performed according to intervention duration, dose of
supplementation and baseline level of CRP. Of 4734 potentially relevant studies, 
only 12 trials met the inclusion criteria with 246 participants in the
intervention arms and 249 participants in control arms. Pooled analysis showed a 
significant reduction in CRP levels of 0.62 mg/l (95% confidence interval=-0.92, 
-0.31; P<0.001) in vitamin E-treated individuals, with the evidence of
heterogeneity across studies. This significant effect was maintained in all
subgroups, although the univariate meta-regression analysis showed that the
vitamin E supplementation dose, baseline level of CRP and duration of
intervention were not the sources of the observed heterogeneity. The results of
this meta-analysis suggest that supplementation with vitamin E in the form of
either α-tocopherol or γ-tocopherol would reduce serum CRP levels.European
Journal of Clinical Nutrition advance online publication, 11 February 2015;
doi:10.1038/ejcn.2014.296.

PMID: 25669317  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


61. Heart. 2015 Feb 11. pii: heartjnl-2014-305730. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2014-305730.
[Epub ahead of print]

Survival in South Asian and White European patients after acute myocardial
infarction.

Gholap NN(1), Khunti K(2), Davies MJ(3), Bodicoat DH(4), Squire IB(5).

Author information: 
(1)Diabetes Research Centre, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK Department of
Diabetes and Endocrinology, and Department of Acute Medicine, University
Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire, Coventry, UK. (2)Diabetes Research Centre,
University of Leicester, Leicester, UK Leicester Clinical Trials Unit, University
of Leicester, Leicester Diabetes Centre, Leicester, UK NIHR Collaborations for
Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC), Leicester, UK.
(3)Leicester Clinical Trials Unit, University of Leicester, Leicester Diabetes
Centre, Leicester, UK Lifestyle & Physical Activity Biomedical Research Unit,
Leicester-Loughborough NIHR Diet, Leicester, UK. (4)Diabetes Research Centre,
University of Leicester, Leicester, UK Leicester Clinical Trials Unit, University
of Leicester, Leicester Diabetes Centre, Leicester, UK. (5)Department of
Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK Leicester NIHR
Cardiovascular Biomedical Research Unit, Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between ethnicity and survival following
acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in White European (WE) and South Asian (SA)
patients from a multiethnic UK population.
METHODS: Retrospective, cohort study of 4111 (N=730, 17.8% of SA ethnicity)
hospitalised patients, with AMI from a tertiary coronary care centre in the UK,
admitted between October 2002 and September 2008. The primary end point was
all-cause mortality. The association of ethnicity with survival post AMI was
assessed using the Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: Compared with WE patients, SA patients were on average younger (62.0
years vs 67.3 years) and had higher prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors
including diabetes (39.7% vs 16.1%). During follow-up (median 912, range 1-2556, 
days), crude mortality rate was 22.6% in SA patients and 26.0% in WE patients
(p=0.061). SA ethnicity did not show univariate (HR 0.85 (0.72 to 1.01)) or
multivariate (HR, 1.12 (0.94 to 1.34)) association with mortality. Findings were 
similar for mortality during 0-30 days (1.30 (0.99 to 1.70)), >30 days-1 year
(0.97 (0.67 to 1.40)), >1 year-3 years (1.21 (0.83 to 1.76)), >3 years (0.82
(0.47 to 1.41)), and for long-term mortality in survivors from 30 days (1.02
(0.81 to 1.29)).
CONCLUSIONS: When adjusted for differing prevalence of cardiovascular risk
factors in the two ethnic groups, survival following AMI was similar for SA and
WE patients in the UK.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25673527  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


62. Hum Gene Ther Clin Dev. 2015 Feb 11. [Epub ahead of print]

A Review of Gene Therapy in Canine and Feline Models of Lysosomal Storage
Disorders.

Bradbury AM(1), Gurda BL, Casal ML, Ponder KP, Vite CH, Haskins ME.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Clinical Studies, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania , Philadelphia, PA 19104.

Lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs) are inherited diseases that result from the
intracellular accumulation of incompletely degraded macromolecules. The majority 
of LSDs affect both the peripheral and central nervous systems and are not
effectively treated by enzyme replacement therapy, substrate reduction therapy,
or bone marrow transplantation. Advances in adeno-associated virus and retroviral
vector development over the past decade have resurged gene therapy as a promising
therapeutic intervention for these monogenic diseases. Animal models of LSDs
provide a necessary intermediate to optimize gene therapy protocols and assess
the safety and efficacy of treatment prior to initiating human clinical trials.
Numerous LSDs are naturally occurring in large animal models and closely
reiterate the lesions, biochemical defect, and clinical phenotype observed in
human patients, and whose lifetime is sufficiently long to assess the effect on
symptoms that develop later in life. Herein, we review that gene therapy in large
animal models (dogs and cats) of LSDs improved many manifestations of disease,
and may be used in patients in the near future.

PMID: 25671613  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


63. Hum Gene Ther Clin Dev. 2015 Feb 11. [Epub ahead of print]

Dog Models for Blinding Inherited Retinal Dystrophies.

Petersen-Jones SM(1), Komáromy AM.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, Michigan State University ,
East Lansing, MI 48824.

Spontaneous canine models exist for several inherited retinal dystrophies. This
review will summarize the models and indicate where they have been used in
translational gene therapy trials. The RPE65 gene therapy trials to treat
childhood blindness are a good example of how studies in dogs have contributed to
therapy development. Outcomes in human clinical trials are compared and
contrasted with the result of the preclinical dog trials.

PMID: 25671556  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


64. Immunopharmacol Immunotoxicol. 2015 Feb 11:1-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Shark cartilage 14 kDa protein as a dendritic cells activator.

Safari E(1), Hassan ZM, Moazzeni SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares
University , Tehran , Iran.

Abstract Low molecular weight components of shark cartilage are reported to have 
anti-tumor as well as immuno-stimulating effects. Dendritic cells (DCs) are
potent antigen-presenting cells (APCs) that have a key role in establishment of
anti-cancer immune response. In this study, the effect of 14 kDa protein from
shark cartilage was investigated on stimulation and maturation of dendritic
cells. The isolated 14 kDa protein from shark cartilage extract was added to DCs 
medium during overnight culture and their maturation and T cells stimulation
potential was investigated. The majority of shark-cartilage-treated DCs expressed
higher levels of maturation markers and were more effective in stimulation of
allogenic T cells compared with non-treated DCs (p < 0.05). Our results showed
that shark cartilage 14 kDa protein can potentially be used in DC-mediated
T-cells stimulation and induction of desirable immune responses in clinical
trials such as cancer immunotherapy. However, further studies are required to
examine this proposal.

PMID: 25669314  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


65. J Dermatolog Treat. 2015 Feb 11:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Pitfalls in clinical trials reveal need for well tolerated, more effective
depigmenting agents.

Saxena S(1), Andersen RM, Maibach HI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, UCSF , San Francisco, CA , USA.

Abstract Objective: Examine clinical trials performed for depigmenting agents in 
order to determine the most effective and well-tolerated depigmenting agent.
Methods: We searched clinical trials, published and unpublished, performed for
hydroquinone, ascorbic acid, azelaic acid, retinol and niacinamide in the period 
2009 till present. Studies were examined based on participant information,
design, duration, intervention, outcome measurements and statistical
significance. Results: Sixty-one studies were examined, 40 published and 21
unpublished. Design, outcome measures and intervention showed sources of bias
were not avoided. Only 30% of published trials were double-blind, 27% used a
placebo and 80% used subjective measurements for their results. Unpublished
trials follow similar outcomes, however, did not provide any significant results.
Conclusion: Based on these results, we are unable to recommend a safer, more
effective depigmenting agent. Lack of thorough trials limits us from accepting
depigmenting agent full evaluation. To accept a depigmenting agent, its duration 
must test for long-term safety, clinical trial must be double-blind and
comparative, use participants of the correct skin type and measure outcomes
objectively. In addition, lack of results for parallel unpublished studies leaves
room for discussion. Efforts toward creating more effective formulations are
welcomed.

PMID: 25669434  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


66. Mol Cancer Ther. 2015 Feb 11. pii: molcanther.0751.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

THE IGF-TRAP: NOVEL INHIBITOR OF CARCINOMA GROWTH AND METASTASIS.

Wang N(1), Rayes RF(1), Elahi SM(2), Lu Y(1), Hancock MA(3), Massie B(2), Rowe
GE(2), Aomari H(2), Hossain S(2), Durocher Y(2), Pinard M(1), Tabariès S(4),
Siegel PM(4), Brodt P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, McGill University. (2)Biotechnology Research Institute,
National Research Council. (3)McGill SPR Facility, McGill University. (4)Rosalind
and Morris Goodman Cancer Research Centre, McGill University. (5)Department of
Surgery, McGill University pnina.brodt@mcgill.ca.

The IGF-I receptor promotes malignant progression and has been recognized as a
target for cancer therapy. Clinical trials with anti-IGF-IR antibodies provided
evidence of therapeutic efficacy but exposed limitations due in part to effects
on, and the compensatory function of the insulin receptor system. Here we report 
on the production, characterization and biological activity of a novel,
IGF-targeting protein (the IGF-Trap) comprising a soluble form of hIGF-IR and the
Fc portion of hIgG1. The IGF-Trap has a high affinity for hIGF-I and hIGF-II but 
low affinity for insulin, as revealed by surface plasmon resonance. It
efficiently blocked IGF-IR signaling in several carcinoma cell types and
inhibited tumor cell proliferation, migration and invasion in vitro. In vivo, the
IGF-Trap showed favourable pharmacokinetic properties and could suppress the
growth of established breast carcinoma tumors when administered therapeutically
into tumor-bearing mice, improving disease free survival. Moreover, IGF-Trap
treatment markedly reduced experimental liver metastasis of colon and lung
carcinoma cells, increasing tumor cell apoptosis and reducing angiogenesis.
Finally, when compared to an anti-IGFIR antibody or IGF binding protein-1 that
were used at similar or higher concentrations, the IGF-Trap showed superior
therapeutic efficacy to both inhibitors. Taken together, we have developed a
targeted therapeutic molecule with highly potent anti-cancer effects that could
address limitations of current IGF-IR-targeting agents.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25673819  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


67. N Engl J Med. 2015 Feb 11. [Epub ahead of print]

Endovascular Therapy for Ischemic Stroke with Perfusion-Imaging Selection.

Campbell BC(1), Mitchell PJ, Kleinig TJ, Dewey HM, Churilov L, Yassi N, Yan B,
Dowling RJ, Parsons MW, Oxley TJ, Wu TY, Brooks M, Simpson MA, Miteff F, Levi CR,
Krause M, Harrington TJ, Faulder KC, Steinfort BS, Priglinger M, Ang T, Scroop R,
Barber PA, McGuinness B, Wijeratne T, Phan TG, Chong W, Chandra RV, Bladin CF,
Badve M, Rice H, de Villiers L, Ma H, Desmond PM, Donnan GA, Davis SM; the
EXTEND-IA Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)The authors' affiliations are listed in the Appendix.

Background Trials of endovascular therapy for ischemic stroke have produced
variable results. We conducted this study to test whether more advanced imaging
selection, recently developed devices, and earlier intervention improve outcomes.
Methods We randomly assigned patients with ischemic stroke who were receiving 0.9
mg of alteplase per kilogram of body weight less than 4.5 hours after the onset
of ischemic stroke either to undergo endovascular thrombectomy with the Solitaire
FR (Flow Restoration) stent retriever or to continue receiving alteplase alone.
All the patients had occlusion of the internal carotid or middle cerebral artery 
and evidence of salvageable brain tissue and ischemic core of less than 70 ml on 
computed tomographic (CT) perfusion imaging. The coprimary outcomes were
reperfusion at 24 hours and early neurologic improvement (≥8-point reduction on
the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale or a score of 0 or 1 at day 3).
Secondary outcomes included the functional score on the modified Rankin scale at 
90 days. Results The trial was stopped early because of efficacy after 70
patients had undergone randomization (35 patients in each group). The percentage 
of ischemic territory that had undergone reperfusion at 24 hours was greater in
the endovascular-therapy group than in the alteplase-only group (median, 100% vs.
37%; P<0.001). Endovascular therapy, initiated at a median of 210 minutes after
the onset of stroke, increased early neurologic improvement at 3 days (80% vs.
37%, P=0.002) and improved the functional outcome at 90 days, with more patients 
achieving functional independence (score of 0 to 2 on the modified Rankin scale, 
71% vs. 40%; P=0.01). There were no significant differences in rates of death or 
symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage. Conclusions In patients with ischemic
stroke with a proximal cerebral arterial occlusion and salvageable tissue on CT
perfusion imaging, early thrombectomy with the Solitaire FR stent retriever, as
compared with alteplase alone, improved reperfusion, early neurologic recovery,
and functional outcome. (Funded by the Australian National Health and Medical
Research Council and others; EXTEND-IA ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01492725 ,
and Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry number, ACTRN12611000969965
.).

PMID: 25671797  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


68. Subst Abus. 2015 Feb 11:0. [Epub ahead of print]

The Use of Technology in Participant Tracking and Study Retention: Lessons
Learned from a Clinical Trials Network Study.

Mitchell SG(1), Schwartz RP, Alvanzo AA, Weisman MS, Kyle TL, Turrigiano EM,
Gibson ML, Perez L, McClure EA, Clingerman S, Froias A, Shandera DR, Walker R,
Babcock DL, Bailey GL, Miele GM, Kunkel LE, Norton M, Stitzer ML.

Author information: 
(1)a Friends Research Institute, Inc. , Baltimore , MD , USA.

Background: The growing use of newer communication and internet technologies,
even among low income and transient populations, require research staff to update
their outreach strategies to ensure high follow-up and participant retention
rates. This paper presents the views of research assistants on the use of cell
phones and the internet to track participants in a multi-site randomized trial of
substance use disorder treatment. Methods: Pre-interview questionnaires exploring
tracking and other study-related activities were collected from 21 research staff
across the 10 participating US sites. Data were then used to construct a
semi-structured interview guide which, in turn, was used to interview 12 of the
same staff members. The questionnaires and interview data were entered in
Atlas.ti and analyzed for emergent themes related to the use of technology for
participant tracking purposes. Results: Study staff reported that most
participants had cell phones, despite having unstable physical addresses and
landlines. The incoming call feature of most cell phones was useful for
participants and research staff alike, and texting proved to have additional
benefits. However, reliance on participants' cell phones also proved problematic.
Even homeless participants were found to have access to the internet through
public libraries and could respond to study staff e-mails. Some study sites
opened generic social media accounts, through which study staff sent private
messages to participants. However, the Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval 
process for tracking participants using social media at some sites was
prohibitively lengthy. Internet searches through Google, national paid databases,
obituaries, and judiciary websites were also helpful tools. Conclusions: Research
staff perceive that cell phones, internet searches, and social networking sites
were effective tools to achieve high follow-up rates in drug abuse research.
Studies should incorporate cell phone, texting, and social network website
information on locator forms; obtain IRB approval for contacting participants
using social networking websites; and include web searches, texting, and the use 
of social media in staff training as standard operating procedures.

PMID: 25671593  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


69. Tumour Biol. 2015 Feb 11. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeting of mTORC2 may have advantages over selective targeting of mTORC1 in the
treatment of malignant pheochromocytoma.

Zhang X(1), Wang X, Xu T, Zhong S, Shen Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of
Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China.

Recent studies have found that mammalian target of rapamycin complex 2 (mTORC2)
is emerging as a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of many human
cancers. However, the effects of targeting of mTORC2 on malignant
pheochromocytomas (PCC) and paragangliomas (PGL) have not been reported. The aim 
of the study was to investigate the effects of targeting of mTORC2 on malignant
PCC/PGL by comparing the inhibitory effects of targeting of mTORC2 with mTORC1 on
pheochromocytoma PC12 cell in vitro and vivo. The expressions of
regulatory-associated protein of mTOR (raptor) and rapamycin-insensitive
companion of mTOR (rictor) were detected by immunohistochemistry in human tissues
of malignant PCC. Targeting of mTORC1, mTORC2, and mTORC1/2 (mTORC1 and mTORC2)
were performed by transfected with raptor, rictor, and mammalian target of
rapamycin (mTOR) small interfering RNA (siRNA) in pheochromocytoma PC12 cell,
respectively. MTT assay, apoptosis analysis, wound healing, and Transwell
approach were performed. A tumor model in nude mice bearing PC12 cell xenografts,
which were dosed with rapamycin or PP242, was established. The expression of
raptor was frequently moderate positive, but the expression of rictor was
frequently strong positive in malignant PCC. In vitro, although inhibition of
mTORC1 was able to suppress PC12 cell proliferation, inhibition of mTORC2 more
effectively suppressed cell proliferation. Inhibition of mTORC2 or mTORC1/2 more 
effectively prevented cell migration and invasion, and promoted cell apoptosis,
while inhibition of mTORC1 only slightly prevented cell migration and invasion,
and was not able to promoted apoptosis. Also, we found that mTOR downstream
kinases were deregulated by targeting of mTORC2, but not mTORC1. In vivo, we
found that PP242 was more potent than rapamycin in inhibiting tumor growth in
tumor model. Our data suggest that targeting of mTORC2 may have advantages over
selective targeting of mTORC1 in the treatment of malignant PCC/PGL. However,
more clinical trials are needed to prove our findings.

PMID: 25666752  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


70. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2015 Feb 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Paediatric cranial defect reconstruction using bioactive fibre-reinforced
composite implant: early outcomes.

Piitulainen JM(1), Posti JP, Aitasalo KM, Vuorinen V, Vallittu PK, Serlo W.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Surgery and Cancer Diseases, Department of Otorhinolaryngology -
Head and Neck Surgery, Turku University Hospital, PO Box 52, 20521, Turku,
Finland, jaakko.piitulainen@utu.fi.

BACKGROUND: In children, approximately half of cryopreserved allograft bone flaps
fail due to infection and resorption. Synthetic materials offer a solution for
allograft bone flap resorption. Fibre-reinforced composite with a bioactive glass
particulate filling is a new synthetic material for bone reconstruction.
Bioactive glass is capable of chemically bonding with bone and is osteoinductive,
osteoconductive and bacteriostatic. Fibre-reinforced composite allows for
fabricating thin (0.8 mm) margins for implant, which are designed as onlays on
the existing bone. Bioactive glass is dissolved over time, whereas the
fibre-reinforced composite serves as a biostable part of the implant, and these
have been tested in preclinical and adult clinical trials. In this study, we
tested the safety and other required properties of this composite material in
large skull bone reconstruction with children.
METHOD: Eight cranioplasties were performed on seven patients, aged 2.5-16 years 
and having large (>16 cm(2)) skull bone defects. The implant used in this study
was a patient-specific, glass-fibre-reinforced composite, which contained a
bioactive glass particulate compound, S53P4.
RESULTS: During follow-up (average 35.1 months), one minor complication was
observed and three patients needed revision surgery. Two surgical site infections
were observed. After treatment of complications, a good functional and cosmetic
outcome was observed in all patients. The implants had an onlay design and fitted
the defect well. In clinical and imaging examinations, the implants were in the
original position with no signs of implant migration, degradation or mechanical
breakage.
CONCLUSIONS: Here, we found that early cranioplasty outcomes with the
fibre-reinforced composite implant were promising. However, a longer follow-up
time and a larger group of patients are needed to draw firmer conclusions
regarding the long-term benefits of the proposed novel biomaterial and implant
design. The glass-fibre-reinforced composite implant incorporated by particles of
bioactive glass may offer an original, non-metallic and bioactive alternative for
reconstruction of large skull bone defects in a paediatric population.

PMID: 25663141  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


71. Angle Orthod. 2015 Feb 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Rapid maxillary expansion effects in Class II malocclusion: A systematic review.

Feres MF(1), Raza H, Alhadlaq A, El-Bialy T.

Author information: 
(1)a Post-doctoral Fellow, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, University of
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of rapid maxillary expansion (RME) on
the sagittal dental or skeletal parameters of growing children with Class II
malocclusion. Materials and Methods: A systematic review intended to identify
relevant literature was conducted. The search was performed on Medline, Embase,
Cochrane Library, and Scopus databases. Reference lists of the included articles 
were also screened for relevant documents. The qualitative assessment was
performed according to the Methodological Index for Non-Randomized Studies
(MINORS) tool, and the resultant data were grouped and analyzed concerning dental
and skeletal sagittal effects of RME. Results: Of 25 screened studies, seven
articles met eligibility criteria and were included. Study samples were observed 
during mixed dentition stage and characterized as having either Class II dental
malocclusion or skeletal discrepancy. None of the included studies was a
randomized clinical trial. Included controlled studies presented several
inadequacies related to control group or lacked appropriate comparative
statistical analysis. Besides being frequently based on deficient methodology,
dental and skeletal sagittal effects of RME were either controversial or lacked
clinical relevance. Conclusion: The effect of RME on the sagittal dimension of
Class II malocclusions has not been proved yet. Future randomized controlled
clinical trials are still needed to definitely address this question.

PMID: 25668727  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


72. Ann Oncol. 2015 Feb 10. pii: mdv063. [Epub ahead of print]

Randomized Phase II Study of Concurrent Versus Sequential Alternating Gefitinib
and Chemotherapy in Previously Untreated Non-small Cell Lung Cancer with
Sensitive EGFR Mutations: NEJ005/TCOG0902.

Sugawara S(1), Oizumi S(2), Minato K(3), Harada T(4), Inoue A(5), Fujita Y(6),
Maemondo M(7), Yoshizawa H(8), Ito K(9), Gemma A(10), Nishitsuji M(11), Harada
M(12), Isobe H(13), Kinoshita I(14), Morita S(15), Kobayashi K(16), Hagiwara
K(17), Kurihara M(18), Nukiwa T(19); on behalf of North East Japan Study Group
and Tokyo Cooperative Oncology Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Sendai Kousei Hospital, Sendai, Japan.
(2)First Department of Medicine, Hokkaido University School of Medicine, Sapporo,
Japan. (3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Gunma Prefectural Cancer Center,
Gunma, Japan. (4)Center for Respiratory Diseases, JCHO Hokkaido Hospital,
Sapporo, Japan. (5)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Tohoku University
Hospital, Sendai, Japan. (6)Department of Respiratory Medicine, National Hospital
Organization Asahikawa Medical Center, Asahikawa, Japan. (7)Department of
Respiratory Medicine; Miyagi Cancer Center, Natori, Japan. (8)Bioscience Medical 
Research Center, Niigata University Medical and Dental Hospital, Niigata, Japan. 
(9)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Niigata City General Hospital, Niigata,
Japan. (10)Department of Pulmonary Medicine and Oncology, Nippon Medical School, 
Graduate School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (11)Department of Respiratory
Medicine, Ishikawa Prefectural Central Hospital, Kanazawa, Japan. (12)Department 
of Respiratory Medicine, National Hospital Organization Hokkaido Cancer Center,
Sapporo, Japan. (13)Department of Medical Oncology, KKR Sapporo Medical Center,
Sapporo, Japan. (14)Department of Medical Oncology; Hokkaido University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan. (15)Department of Biomedical Statistics and
Bioinformatics, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.
(16)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Saitama Medical University International 
Medical Center, Hidaka, Japan. (17)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Saitama
Medical University, Saitama, Japan. (18)Tokyo Cooperative Oncology Group, Tokyo, 
Japan. (19)Executive Director, Japan Anti-Tuberculosis Association, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The first-line combination of an epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) plus platinum-based doublet chemotherapy
has not been sufficiently evaluated for patients with EGFR-mutant non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). This randomized phase II study was designed to select a
combination regimen for phase III evaluation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Chemotherapy-naïve patients with advanced non-squamous
EGFR-mutant NSCLC were randomly assigned to receive either a concurrent or a
sequential alternating regimen with gefitinib (250 mg) and carboplatin/pemetrexed
(area under the curve [AUC]=6 and 500 mg/m(2); 3-weekly). The primary endpoint
was progression-free survival (PFS). Secondary endpoints were overall survival
(OS), response, and safety.
RESULTS: All 80 patients enrolled were eligible and evaluable for efficacy (41
and 39 patients in the concurrent and sequential alternating regimen groups,
respectively). Median PFS was 18.3 months for the concurrent regimen and 15.3
months for the sequential alternating regimen (hazard ratio [HR] 0.71
[0.42-1.20], p=0.20). Although OS data are immature (16 and 24 death events),
median survival times were 41.9 and 30.7 months in the concurrent and sequential 
alternating regimen groups, respectively (HR 0.51 [0.26-0.99]; p=0.042). Response
rates were similar in both groups (87.8% and 84.6%). Hematological and
non-hematological adverse events were common and reversible; interstitial lung
disease was neither frequent nor fatal (two cases in each group; 5% of all
patients).
CONCLUSION: This is the first randomized study to investigate the efficacy of
combinational EGFR-TKI and chemotherapy in the EGFR-mutated setting. Both
regimens had promising efficacy with predictable toxicities, although concurrent 
regimens might provide better OS. The concurrent regimen was chosen to compare
with gefitinib monotherapy in our ongoing phase III study.
CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION: University Hospital Medical Information Network
(UMIN) Clinical Trial Registry (UMIN C000002789).

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25669832  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


73. Arch Pharm Res. 2015 Feb 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Cancer stem cell targeting: Are we there yet?

Jung Y(1), Kim WY.

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Cell Fate Control, College of Pharmacy, Sookmyung Women's 
University, CheongPa-Ro 47 Gil, Yongsan-Gu, Seoul, 140-742, Korea.

Several decades after the first notion that cancer cells are heterogeneous, not
only histologically but also at the level of tumorigenicity, the existence of a
tumor initiation population (so-called cancer stem cells) is now widely accepted.
Here, we review the historical background leading up to the identification of
this special cancer cell population and its role in the resistance of tumors to
conventional therapies. In addition, we briefly review the clinical targeting
strategy of the specific signaling network for cancer stem cells. Current
clinical trials with newly developed drugs or older drugs for other uses are
summarized to provide an understanding of the current status of strategies to
target cancer stem cells.

PMID: 25666873  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


74. Brain Imaging Behav. 2015 Feb 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Interacting with the National Database for Autism Research (NDAR) via the LONI
Pipeline workflow environment.

Torgerson CM(1), Quinn C, Dinov I, Liu Z, Petrosyan P, Pelphrey K, Haselgrove C, 
Kennedy DN, Toga AW, Van Horn JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging and The Institute for Neuroimaging and
Informatics, Keck School of Medicine of USC, University of Southern California,
2001 North Soto Street - SSB1-Room 102, Los Angeles, CA, 90032, USA.

Under the umbrella of the National Database for Clinical Trials (NDCT) related to
mental illnesses, the National Database for Autism Research (NDAR) seeks to
gather, curate, and make openly available neuroimaging data from NIH-funded
studies of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). NDAR has recently made its database
accessible through the LONI Pipeline workflow design and execution environment to
enable large-scale analyses of cortical architecture and function via local,
cluster, or "cloud"-based computing resources. This presents a unique opportunity
to overcome many of the customary limitations to fostering biomedical
neuroimaging as a science of discovery. Providing open access to primary
neuroimaging data, workflow methods, and high-performance computing will increase
uniformity in data collection protocols, encourage greater reliability of
published data, results replication, and broaden the range of researchers now
able to perform larger studies than ever before. To illustrate the use of NDAR
and LONI Pipeline for performing several commonly performed neuroimaging
processing steps and analyses, this paper presents example workflows useful for
ASD neuroimaging researchers seeking to begin using this valuable combination of 
online data and computational resources. We discuss the utility of such database 
and workflow processing interactivity as a motivation for the sharing of
additional primary data in ASD research and elsewhere.

PMID: 25666423  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


75. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2015 Feb 10. pii: CIRCOUTCOMES.114.001306. [Epub
ahead of print]

Survival Benefit of the Primary Prevention Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator
Among Older Patients: Does Age Matter? An Analysis of Pooled Data From 5 Clinical
Trials.

Hess PL(1), Al-Khatib SM(2), Han JY(2), Edwards R(2), Bardy GH(2), Bigger JT(2), 
Buxton A(2), Cappato R(2), Dorian P(2), Hallstrom A(2), Kadish AH(2), Kudenchuk
PJ(2), Lee KL(2), Mark DB(2), Moss AJ(2), Steinman R(2), Inoue LY(2), Sanders
G(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, NC (P.L.H., S.M.A., R.E.,
K.L.L., D.B.M., G.S.); University of Washington, Seattle (J.Y.H., G.H.B., A.H.,
P.J.K., L.Y.T.I.); Columbia University, New York, NY (J.T.B., R.S.); Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA (A.B.); I.R.C.C.S. Policlinico San Donato,
Milan, Italy (R.C.); University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada (P.D.); Northwestern 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL (A.H.K.); and University of Rochester,
Rochester, NY (A.J.M.). p.hess@duke.edu. (2)From the Duke Clinical Research
Institute, Durham, NC (P.L.H., S.M.A., R.E., K.L.L., D.B.M., G.S.); University of
Washington, Seattle (J.Y.H., G.H.B., A.H., P.J.K., L.Y.T.I.); Columbia
University, New York, NY (J.T.B., R.S.); Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Boston, MA (A.B.); I.R.C.C.S. Policlinico San Donato, Milan, Italy (R.C.);
University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada (P.D.); Northwestern Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, IL (A.H.K.); and University of Rochester, Rochester, NY
(A.J.M.).

BACKGROUND: The impact of patient age on the risks of death or rehospitalization 
after primary prevention implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) placement
is uncertain.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Data from 5 major ICD trials were merged: the Multicenter
Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial I (MADIT-I), the Multicenter
UnSustained Tachycardia Trial (MUSTT), the Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator
Implantation Trial II (MADIT-II), the Defibrillators in Nonischemic
Cardiomyopathy Treatment Evaluation Trial (DEFINITE), and the Sudden Cardiac
Death in Heart Failure Trial (SCD-HeFT). Median age at enrollment was 62
(interquartile range 53-70) years. Compared with their younger counterparts,
older patients had a greater burden of comorbid illness. In unadjusted
exploratory analyses, ICD recipients were less likely to die than nonrecipients
in all age groups: among patients aged <55 years: hazard ratio 0.48, 95%
posterior credible interval 0.33 to 0.69; among patients aged 55 to 64 years:
hazard ratio 0.69, 95% posterior credible interval 0.53 to 0.90; among patients
aged 65 to 74 years: hazard ratio 0.67, 95% posterior credible interval, 0.53 to 
0.85; and among patients aged ≥75 years: hazard ratio 0.54, 95% posterior
credible interval 0.37 to 0.78. Sample sizes were limited among patients aged ≥75
years. In adjusted Bayesian-Weibull modeling, point estimates indicate ICD
efficacy persists but is attenuated with increasing age. There was evidence of an
interaction between age and ICD treatment on survival (two-sided posterior tail
probability of no interaction <0.01). Using an adjusted Bayesian logistic
regression model, there was no evidence of an interaction between age and ICD
treatment on rehospitalization (two-sided posterior tail probability of no
interaction 0.44).
CONCLUSIONS: In this analysis, the survival benefit of the ICD exists but is
attenuated with increasing age. The latter finding may be because of the higher
burden of comorbid illness, competing causes of death, or limited sample size of 
older patients. There was no evidence that age modifies the association between
ICD treatment and rehospitalization.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

PMID: 25669833  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


76. Climacteric. 2015 Feb 10:1-8. [Epub ahead of print]

Hormones, herbal preparations and nutriceuticals for a better life after the
menopause: part II.

Comhaire FH(1), Depypere HT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University Hospital , Gent , Belgium.

Long-term estrogen replacement therapy with estrogen has benefits for many
postmenopausal women. However, some women prefer non-steroidal substitution with 
herbal preparations. The effectivity against vasomotor symptoms has been
evidenced for the extracts of pine bark, of linseed and of Lepidium meyenii
(Maca), whereas there is controversy about the effectiveness of genistein-rich
soy extract. The extracts of cruciferous vegetables such as Broccoli and of
linseed induce changes in the metabolism of estrogens, and antioxidants may
reverse altered epigenetic DNA methylation, possibly reducing the risk of breast 
cancer or its recurrence. Indirect evidence from the literature and from clinical
trials supports that a nutriceutical composed of plant extracts, low-dose
vitamins and minerals may improve the quality of life by delaying certain
age-related diseases. On the basis of epidemiologic studies, physiopathological
considerations and controlled prospectieve trials, it is suggested that
transdermal substitution therapy with estradiol together with nutriceutical food 
supplementation may increase the number of quality-adjusted life years of
postmenopausal women, but complementary, large-scale, prospective trials are
still needed.

PMID: 25668332  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


77. Clin Trials. 2015 Feb 10. pii: 1740774515571443. [Epub ahead of print]

Adolescent knowledge and attitudes related to clinical trials.

Brown DL(1), Cowdery JE(2), Jones TS(3), Langford A(4), Gammage C(5), Jacobs
TL(6).

Author information: 
(1)Stroke Program, The Cardiovascular Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
MI, USA devinb@umich.edu. (2)School of Health Promotion & Human Performance,
Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, MI, USA. (3)Department of Teacher
Education, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, MI, USA. (4)Center for
Clinical Management Research, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Washington,
DC, USA Center for Bioethics and Social Sciences in Medicine, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (5)Science Department, Melvindale High School,
Melvindale, MI, USA. (6)Stroke Program, The Cardiovascular Center, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA Department of Neurosurgery, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

BACKGROUND OR AIMS: Poor enrollment plagues most clinical trials. Furthermore,
despite mandates to improve minority representation in clinical trial
participation, little progress has been made. We investigated the knowledge and
attitudes of adolescents related to clinical trials and made race/ethnicity
comparisons in an attempt to identify a possible educational intervention target.
METHODS: Students aged 13-18 years in southeast Michigan were offered
participation through a class at one high school or two academic summer
enrichment programs that drew from multiple high schools (73% response).
Questionnaires previously validated in adults were administered. Non-Hispanic
whites were compared with minorities using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests.
RESULTS: Of the 82 respondents, the median age was 16 years (interquartile range:
15-17 years); 22 (28%) were white, 41 (51%) were African American, 11 (14%) were 
multiracial, 2 (2%) were American Indian or Alaska Native, 1 (1%) was Asian, 3
(4%) were Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and 2 respondents did not
report a race (but did report Hispanic ethnicity). Nine (12%) were Hispanic. Only
27 (33%) had ever heard of a clinical trial. On a scale from 1 (most receptive)
to 5 (least receptive) for learning more about a clinical trial for a relevant
medical condition, the median score was 2 (interquartile range: 1-3) and for
participating in a clinical trial for a relevant medical condition was 2
(interquartile range: 2-3). Overall knowledge was poor, with a median of 46%
(interquartile range: 23%-62%) of knowledge answers correct. Knowledge was
reduced (p = 0.0006) and attitudes were more negative (p = 0.05) in minorities
than non-Hispanic whites, while minorities also endorsed more substantial
barriers to trial participation (p = 0.0002). Distrust was similar between
minority students and non-Hispanic whites (p = 0.15), and self-efficacy was
greater in non-Hispanic whites (p = 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Educational interventions directed toward adolescents that address
knowledge, attitudes, and distrust in order to improve clinical trial awareness
and receptivity overall are needed and may represent a tool to address
disparities in minority enrollment in clinical trials.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25673637  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


78. Clin Trials. 2015 Feb 10. pii: 1740774515571917. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical trial awareness: Changes over time and sociodemographic disparities.

Leiter A(1), Diefenbach MA(2), Doucette J(3), Oh WK(4), Galsky MD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Tisch Cancer
Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA
Amanda.leiter@mssm.edu. (2)Department of Urology, Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. (3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. (4)Department of Medicine, 
Division of Hematology/Oncology, Tisch Cancer Institute, Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND OR AIMS: Lack of clinical trial awareness is a known obstacle to
clinical trial enrollment. We sought to define the prevalence of clinical trial
awareness in the US population, determine characteristics associated with
increased trial awareness, and explore potential disparities in trial awareness.
METHODS: We utilized data from the Health Information National Trends Survey from
2008 and 2012. Logistic regression was utilized to assess predictors of clinical 
trial awareness, particularly sociodemographic variables and information-seeking 
preferences. Trial awareness and information-seeking preferences were compared in
patient subgroups and between the two time periods.
RESULTS: Clinical trial awareness increased from 68% to 74% between 2008 and
2012. In the 2012 dataset, higher education level (odds ratio: 3.52, 95%
confidence interval: 2.16-5.74), higher yearly income category (odds ratio: 1.84,
95% confidence interval: 1.17-2.89), and Internet use (odds ratio: 2.13, 95%
confidence interval: 1.52-3.00) were significantly associated with clinical trial
awareness. Hispanic ethnicity (odds ratio: 0.41, 95% confidence interval:
0.25-0.68) was significantly associated with decreased awareness. Clinical trial 
awareness increased in African-American/Blacks (Δ10.6%) and Hispanics (Δ10.7%)
between 2008 and 2012, as did Internet use in both subgroups (Δ14.2%, Δ18.1%,
respectively).
CONCLUSION: Overall clinical trial awareness has increased between 2008 and 2012,
although a large subset of the population still lacks general awareness of
clinical trials. Racial and ethnic disparities in trial awareness exist, although
disparities may be decreasing among the Black population. These findings may help
target educational efforts and inform approaches to increasing trial awareness.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25673636  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


79. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 10;2:CD003200. [Epub ahead of print]

Exercise therapy for chronic fatigue syndrome.

Larun L(1), Brurberg KG, Odgaard-Jensen J, Price JR.

Author information: 
(1)Primary Health Care Unit, Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health Services, 
PO Box 7004, St Olav's plass, Oslo, Norway, N-0130.

BACKGROUND: Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is characterised by persistent,
medically unexplained fatigue, as well as symptoms such as musculoskeletal pain, 
sleep disturbance, headaches and impaired concentration and short-term memory.
CFS presents as a common, debilitating and serious health problem. Treatment may 
include physical interventions, such as exercise therapy, which was last reviewed
in 2004.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review was to determine the effects of exercise
therapy (ET) for patients with CFS as compared with any other intervention or
control.• Exercise therapy versus 'passive control' (e.g. treatment as usual,
waiting-list control, relaxation, flexibility).• Exercise therapy versus other
active treatment (e.g. cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT), cognitive treatment, 
supportive therapy, pacing, pharmacological therapy such as antidepressants).•
Exercise therapy in combination with other specified treatment strategies versus 
other specified treatment strategies (e.g. exercise combined with pharmacological
treatment vs pharmacological treatment alone).
SEARCH METHODS: We searched The Cochrane Collaboration Depression, Anxiety and
Neurosis Controlled Trials Register (CCDANCTR), the Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and SPORTDiscus up to May 2014 using a comprehensive 
list of free-text terms for CFS and exercise. We located unpublished or ongoing
trials through the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials 
Registry Platform (to May 2014). We screened reference lists of retrieved
articles and contacted experts in the field for additional studies SELECTION
CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials involving adults with a primary diagnosis 
of CFS who were able to participate in exercise therapy. Studies had to compare
exercise therapy with passive control, psychological therapies, adaptive pacing
therapy or pharmacological therapy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently performed study
selection, risk of bias assessments and data extraction. We combined continuous
measures of outcomes using mean differences (MDs) and standardised mean
differences (SMDs). We combined serious adverse reactions and drop-outs using
risk ratios (RRs). We calculated an overall effect size with 95% confidence
intervals (CIs) for each outcome.
MAIN RESULTS: We have included eight randomised controlled studies and have
reported data from 1518 participants in this review. Three studies diagnosed
individuals with CFS using the 1994 criteria of the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC); five used the Oxford criteria. Exercise therapy lasted from
12 to 26 weeks. Seven studies used variations of aerobic exercise therapy such as
walking, swimming, cycling or dancing provided at mixed levels in terms of
intensity of the aerobic exercise from very low to quite rigorous, whilst one
study used anaerobic exercise. Control groups consisted of passive control (eight
studies; e.g. treatment as usual, relaxation, flexibility) or CBT (two studies), 
cognitive therapy (one study), supportive listening (one study), pacing (one
study), pharmacological treatment (one study) and combination treatment (one
study). Risk of bias varied across studies, but within each study, little
variation was found in the risk of bias across our primary and secondary outcome 
measures.Investigators compared exercise therapy with 'passive' control in eight 
trials, which enrolled 971 participants. Seven studies consistently showed a
reduction in fatigue following exercise therapy at end of treatment, even though 
the fatigue scales used different scoring systems: an 11-item scale with a
scoring system of 0 to 11 points (MD -6.06, 95% CI -6.95 to -5.17; one study, 148
participants; low-quality evidence); the same 11-item scale with a scoring system
of 0 to 33 points (MD -2.82, 95% CI -4.07 to -1.57; three studies, 540
participants; moderate-quality evidence); and a 14-item scale with a scoring
system of 0 to 42 points (MD -6.80, 95% CI -10.31 to -3.28; three studies, 152
participants; moderate-quality evidence). Serious adverse reactions were rare in 
both groups (RR 0.99, 95% CI 0.14 to 6.97; one study, 319 participants;
moderate-quality evidence), but sparse data made it impossible for review authors
to draw conclusions. Study authors reported a positive effect of exercise therapy
at end of treatment with respect to sleep (MD -1.49, 95% CI -2.95 to -0.02; two
studies, 323 participants), physical functioning (MD 13.10, 95% CI 1.98 to 24.22;
five studies, 725 participants) and self-perceived changes in overall health (RR 
1.83, 95% CI 1.39 to 2.40; four studies, 489 participants). It was not possible
for review authors to draw conclusions regarding the remaining
outcomes.Investigators compared exercise therapy with CBT in two trials (351
participants). One trial (298 participants) reported little or no difference in
fatigue at end of treatment between the two groups using an 11-item scale with a 
scoring system of 0 to 33 points (MD 0.20, 95% CI -1.49 to 1.89). Both studies
measured differences in fatigue at follow-up, but neither found differences
between the two groups using an 11-item fatigue scale with a scoring system of 0 
to 33 points (MD 0.30, 95% CI -1.45 to 2.05) and a nine-item Fatigue Severity
Scale with a scoring system of 1 to 7 points (MD 0.40, 95% CI -0.34 to 1.14).
Serious adverse reactions were rare in both groups (RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.11 to
3.96). We observed little or no difference in physical functioning, depression,
anxiety and sleep, and we were not able to draw any conclusions with regard to
pain, self-perceived changes in overall health, use of health service resources
and drop-out rate.With regard to other comparisons, one study (320 participants) 
suggested a general benefit of exercise over adaptive pacing, and another study
(183 participants) a benefit of exercise over supportive listening. The available
evidence was too sparse to draw conclusions about the effect of pharmaceutical
interventions.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Patients with CFS may generally benefit and feel less
fatigued following exercise therapy, and no evidence suggests that exercise
therapy may worsen outcomes. A positive effect with respect to sleep, physical
function and self-perceived general health has been observed, but no conclusions 
for the outcomes of pain, quality of life, anxiety, depression, drop-out rate and
health service resources were possible. The effectiveness of exercise therapy
seems greater than that of pacing but similar to that of CBT. Randomised trials
with low risk of bias are needed to investigate the type, duration and intensity 
of the most beneficial exercise intervention.

PMID: 25674924  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


80. Eur Heart J. 2015 Feb 10. pii: ehu484. [Epub ahead of print]

Ularitide for the treatment of acute decompensated heart failure: from
preclinical to clinical studies.

Anker SD(1), Ponikowski P(2), Mitrovic V(3), Peacock WF(4), Filippatos G(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Innovative Clinical Trials, University Medical Centre Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany s.anker@cachexia.de. (2)Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Kerckhoff-Klinik, Bad Nauheim, Germany. (4)Emergency
Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA. (5)Athens University
Hospital Attikon, Athens, Greece.

The short- and long-term morbidity and mortality in acute heart failure is still 
unacceptably high. There is an unmet need for new therapy options with new drugs 
with a new mode of action. One of the drugs currently in clinical testing in
Phase III is ularitide, which is the chemically synthesized form of the human
natriuretic peptide urodilatin. Urodilatin is produced in humans by differential 
processing of pro-atrial natriuretic peptide in distal renal tubule cells.
Physiologically, urodilatin appears to be the natriuretic peptide involved in
sodium homeostasis. Ularitide exerts its pharmacological actions such as
vasodilation, diuresis, and natriuresis through the natriuretic peptide
receptor/particulate guanylate cyclase/cyclic guanosine monophosphate pathway. In
animal models of heart failure as well as Phase I and II clinical studies in
heart failure patients, ularitide demonstrated beneficial effects such as symptom
relief and vasodilation, while still preserving renal function. Subsequently, the
pivotal acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) Phase III study, called
TRUE-AHF, was started with the objectives to evaluate the effects of ularitide
infusion on the clinical status and cardiovascular mortality of patients with
ADHF compared with placebo. This review summarizes preclinical and clinical data 
supporting the potential use of ularitide in the treatment of ADHF.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society of Cardiology.

PMID: 25670819  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


81. Gut. 2015 Feb 10. pii: gutjnl-2014-307503. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2014-307503. [Epub
ahead of print]

Leadership training to improve adenoma detection rate in screening colonoscopy: a
randomised trial.

Kaminski MF(1), Anderson J(2), Valori R(3), Kraszewska E(1), Rupinski M(1),
Pachlewski J(1), Wronska E(1), Bretthauer M(4), Thomas-Gibson S(5), Kuipers
EJ(6), Regula J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Medical Centre for Postgraduate
Education and the Maria Sklodowska-Curie Memorial Cancer Centre and Institute of 
Oncology, Warsaw, Poland. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Gloucestershire
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Gloucester, UK. (3)Department of
Gastroenterology, Gloucestershire Royal Hospital, Gloucester, UK. (4)Department
of Health Economy and Health Management, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway
Department of Gastroenterology, Oslo University Hospital Rikshospitalet, Oslo,
Norway. (5)Wolfson Unit for Endoscopy, St. Mark's Hospital, London, UK.
(6)Departments of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, and Internal Medicine, Erasmus
Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Suboptimal adenoma detection rate (ADR) at colonoscopy is associated
with increased risk of interval colorectal cancer. It is uncertain how ADR might 
be improved. We compared the effect of leadership training versus feedback only
on colonoscopy quality in a countrywide randomised trial.
DESIGN: 40 colonoscopy screening centres with suboptimal performance in the
Polish screening programme (centre leader ADR ≤25% during preintervention phase
January to December 2011) were randomised to either a Train-Colonoscopy-Leaders
(TCLs) programme (assessment, hands-on training, post-training feedback) or
feedback only (individual quality measures). Colonoscopies performed June to
December 2012 (early postintervention) and January to December 2013 (late
postintervention) were used to calculate changes in quality measures. Primary
outcome was change in leaders' ADR. Mixed effect models using ORs and 95% CIs
were computed.
RESULTS: The study included 24 582 colonoscopies performed by 38 leaders and
56 617 colonoscopies performed by 138 endoscopists at the participating centres. 
The absolute difference between the TCL and feedback groups in mean ADR
improvement of leaders was 7.1% and 4.2% in early and late postintervention
phases, respectively. The TCL group had larger improvement in ADR in early (OR
1.61; 95% CI 1.29 to 2.01; p<0.001) and late (OR 1.35; 95% CI 1.10 to 1.66;
p=0.004) postintervention phases. In the late postintervention phase, the
absolute difference between the TCL and feedback groups in mean ADR improvement
of entire centres was 3.9% (OR 1.25; 95% CI 1.04 to 1.50; p=0.017).
CONCLUSIONS: Teaching centre leaders in colonoscopy training improved important
quality measures in screening colonoscopy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT01667198.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25670810  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


82. J Cancer Educ. 2015 Feb 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Awareness and Perceptions of Clinical Trials in Cancer Patients and Their
Families in Saudi Arabia.

Bazarbashi S(1), Hassan A, Eldin AM, Soudy H, Hussain F.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Medical Oncology, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research
Center-Riyadh, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, bazarbashi@gmail.com.

Despite the increasing number of medical articles being published from the Middle
East, clinical research is still lagging behind compared to other regions.
Enrolling participants into clinical trials presents an important challenge. We
wanted to explore the perception, knowledge, and willingness of cancer patients
to participate in oncology clinical trials and to recommend strategies to
overcome these challenges. A 31-item questionnaire was administered to cancer
patients and their family members in an outpatient clinic. Two hundred four
patients and family members were enrolled between December 2011 and February
2013. Fifty-eight percent of the participants were aware of clinical trials. Some
misconceptions included the following: 22 % believed that no clinical trials were
conducted in the Arab world, 19 % believed that clinical trials in the Arab world
were not under any regulatory authority supervision, and 15 % believed that local
clinical trials are conducted on subjects without their consent. One third of
patients assumed that clinical trials are executed on animals instead of humans, 
and greater than 40 % believed that clinical trials are performed for new
medications only. Finally, 61 % of the survey participants who were aware of
clinical trials expressed their willingness to participate in trials. This large 
cohort survey demonstrated that a relatively significant number of Saudi cancer
patients and their families are aware of clinical trials and a similarly high
number of participants are willing to participate in clinical trials. This leads 
us to believe that patients' awareness and perception of clinical trials are not 
a significant limiting factor in clinical trial recruitment in our region.

PMID: 25663358  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


83. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Feb 10. pii: jnnp-2014-309768. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-309768. [Epub ahead of print]

Short-interval observational data to inform clinical trial design in Huntington's
disease.

Hobbs NZ(1), Farmer RE(2), Rees EM(1), Cole JH(1), Haider S(1), Malone IB(3),
Sprengelmeyer R(4), Johnson H(5), Mueller HP(4), Sussmuth SD(4), Roos RA(6), Durr
A(7), Frost C(2), Scahill RI(1), Landwehrmeyer B(4), Tabrizi SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of Neurology,
University College London, London, UK. (2)Department of Medical Statistics,
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. (3)Dementia Research 
Centre, UCL Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany. (5)Department of
Psychiatry, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, USA. (6)Department of Neurology,
Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The Netherlands. (7)APHP-Department of 
Genetics and INSERM UMR S679, ICM (Brain and Spine Institute), Salpêtrière
University Hospital, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate candidate outcomes for disease-modifying trials in
Huntington's disease (HD) over 6-month, 9-month and 15-month intervals, across
multiple domains. To present guidelines on rapid efficacy readouts for
disease-modifying trials.
METHODS: 40 controls and 61 patients with HD, recruited from four EU sites,
underwent 3 T MRI and standard clinical and cognitive assessments at baseline, 6 
and 15 months. Neuroimaging analysis included global and regional change in
macrostructure (atrophy and cortical thinning), and microstructure (diffusion
metrics). The main outcome was longitudinal effect size (ES) for each outcome.
Such ESs can be used to calculate sample-size requirements for clinical trials
for hypothesised treatment efficacies.
RESULTS: Longitudinal changes in macrostructural neuroimaging measures such as
caudate atrophy and ventricular expansion were significantly larger in HD than
controls, giving rise to consistently large ES over the 6-month, 9-month and
15-month intervals. Analogous ESs for cortical metrics were smaller with wide
CIs. Microstructural (diffusion) neuroimaging metrics ESs were also typically
smaller over the shorter intervals, although caudate diffusivity metrics
performed strongly over 9 and 15 months. Clinical and cognitive outcomes
exhibited small longitudinal ESs, particularly over 6-month and 9-month
intervals, with wide CIs, indicating a lack of precision.
CONCLUSIONS: To exploit the potential power of specific neuroimaging measures
such as caudate atrophy in disease-modifying trials, we propose their use as (1) 
initial short-term readouts in early phase/proof-of-concept studies over 6 or
9 months, and (2) secondary end points in efficacy studies over longer periods
such as 15 months.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25669748  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


84. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Feb 10. pii: jnnp-2014-309493. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-309493. [Epub ahead of print]

Amyloid-related imaging abnormalities-haemosiderin (ARIA-H) in patients with
Alzheimer's disease treated with bapineuzumab: a historical, prospective
secondary analysis.

Arrighi HM(1), Barakos J(2), Barkhof F(3), Tampieri D(4), Jack C Jr(5), Melançon 
D(5), Morris K(6), Ketter N(1), Liu E(1), Brashear HR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Janssen Research & Development, South San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)California Pacific Medical Center, San Francisco, California, USA Synarc,
Newark, California, USA. (3)Department of Radiology, Image Analysis Centre, VU
University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands Department of Diagnostic
Radiology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (4)NeuroRx
Research, Montreal, Canada. (5)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA. (6)Janssen
Alzheimer Immunotherapy R&D, South San Francisco, California, USA BioMarin, San
Rafael, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Amyloid-related imaging abnormalities due to haemosiderin deposition 
(ARIA-H) occur in patients with mild to moderate dementia due to Alzheimer's
disease (AD) and have been reported with increased incidence in clinical trials
of amyloid-lowering therapies under development for AD.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to explore the relationship between the incidences
of ARIA-H during treatment with placebo and different doses of bapineuzumab, a
humanised monoclonal antibody directed against amyloid β.
METHODS: Two neuroradiologists independently reviewed 2572 GRE/T2* MRI sequences 
from 262 participants in two phase two clinical trials of bapineuzumab and an
open-label extension study. Readers were blinded to the participant's therapy,
APOE ε4 genotype and medical history.
RESULTS: Several risk factors for small ARIA-H <10 mm (microhaemorrhages) were
identified: APOE ε4, bapineuzumab treatment, pre-existing small ARIA-H and use of
antithrombotics. The HR (95%CI) for incident ARIA-H <10 mm associated with the
number of APOE ε4 alleles was 11.9 (3.3 to 42.5) for 2 versus no alleles and 3.5 
(1.0 to 12.0) for 1 versus no allele. The HR for bapineuzumab therapy was 3.5
(1.0 to 12.0); for the presence of baseline ARIA-H <10 mm, it was 3.5 (1.6 to
7.8), and for the use of antithrombotic agents it was 2.2 (1.0 to 4.8). The
incidence rate for ARIA-H <10 mm was elevated only in the initial 6 months of
active treatment and declined after this interval to a rate similar to that
observed in the group treated with placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: ARIA-H represents a spectrum of MRI findings due to haemosiderin
deposition that appears to be related to impaired vascular integrity. The
increased risk for ARIA-H associated with APOE ε4 allele frequency, pre-existing 
ARIA-H, treatment with bapineuzumab and use of antithrombotic agents provides
additional support for this hypothesis of loss of integrity of cerebral vessels
due to amyloid burden.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT00112073 and NCT00606476.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25669746  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


85. Leuk Lymphoma. 2015 Feb 10:1-28. [Epub ahead of print]

Sorafenib induces paradoxical phosphorylation of the extracellular
signal-regulated kinase pathway in acute myeloid leukemia cells lacking FLT3-ITD 
mutation.

Fouladi F, Jehn LB, Metzelder SK, Hub F, Henkenius K, Burchert A, Brendel C,
Stiewe T, Neubauer A.

Abstract Gain-of-function mutations in theRAS and FLT3 genes are frequently found
in cells of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), leading to constitutive activation of
signaling pathways that regulatefundamental cellular processes, and aretherefore 
attractive targets for AML therapy. Themulti-targeted kinase inhibitor sorafenib 
is efficacious in AML with FLT3 - internal-tandem-duplication (ITD),but
resistance to therapy is an important clinical problem. It is unclear whether AML
lacking FLT3-ITD respond to sorafenib. Using AML cell lines, we show that a low
concentration of sorafenib induces opposing effectsdepending on the oncogenic
background. In FLT3-ITD positive cells sorafenib blocks Erk-activity and cell
proliferation, and triggers apoptosis.However, in cells lacking FLT3-ITD,
sorafenib paradoxically activates Erk2,stimulates cellular proliferation and
metabolic activity. Thus, depending on the genetic context, sorafenib is a
beneficial inhibitor or paradoxical activator of mitogenic signalling pathways in
AML. These results harbour important consequences in planning clinical trials in 
AML.

PMID: 25665465  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


86. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Feb 10. doi: 10.1038/nrgastro.2015.21. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Childhood functional abdominal pain: mechanisms and management.

Korterink J(1), Devanarayana NM(2), Rajindrajith S(2), Vlieger A(3), Benninga
MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatric Gastroenterology &Nutrition, Emma Children's
Hospital, Academic Medical Centre, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam,
Netherlands. (2)Department of Physiology and Department of Paediatrics, Faculty
of Medicine, University of Kelaniya, Thalagolla Road, 11010 Ragama, Sri Lanka.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, St. Antonius Hospital, 3430 EM, Nieuwegein,
Netherlands.

Chronic abdominal pain is one of the most common clinical syndromes encountered
in day to day clinical paediatric practice. Although common, its definition is
confusing, predisposing factors are poorly understood and the pathophysiological 
mechanisms are not clear. The prevailing viewpoint in the pathogenesis involves
the inter-relationship between changes in hypersensitivity and altered motility, 
to which several risk factors have been linked. Making a diagnosis of functional 
abdominal pain can be a challenge, as it is unclear which further diagnostic
tests are necessary to exclude an organic cause. Moreover, large, well-performed,
high-quality clinical trials for effective agents are lacking, which undermines
evidence-based treatment. This Review summarizes current knowledge regarding the 
epidemiology, pathophysiology, risk factors and diagnostic work-up of functional 
abdominal pain. Finally, management options for children with functional
abdominal pain are discussed including medications, dietary interventions,
probiotics and psychological and complementary therapies, to improve
understanding and to maximize the quality of care for children with this
condition.

PMID: 25666642  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


87. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2015 Feb 10. doi: 10.1038/nrneph.2015.6. [Epub ahead of print]

Access to medications and conducting clinical trials in LMICs.

Okpechi IG(1), Swanepoel CR(1), Venter F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur
Hospital and University of Cape Town, Observatory 7925, Cape Town, South Africa. 
(2)Wits Reproductive Health and HIV Institute, University of the Witwatersrand,
PO Box 2616, Saxonwold 2132, South Africa.

Access to essential medications is limited in many low-to-middle income countries
(LMICs) and those that are available may be prohibitively expensive to the
general population. Clinical trials have been suggested as an approach to improve
drug access in LMICs but the number of trials conducted in these countries is
small because of regulatory issues and a lack of infrastructure. In this article,
Nature Reviews Nephrology asks three experts their opinions on how to improve
drug access and increase the numbers of clinical trials conducted in LMICs.

PMID: 25668002  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


88. Neurorehabil Neural Repair. 2015 Feb 10. pii: 1545968314567152. [Epub ahead of
print]

Modulation of Perception or Emotion? A Scoping Review of Tinnitus Neuromodulation
Using Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation.

Shekhawat GS(1), Stinear CM(1), Searchfield GD(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (2)University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand Tinnitus Research Initiative, Regensburg, Germany
g.searchfield@auckland.ac.nz.

Background. Tinnitus is the phantom perception of sound and can have negative
effect on the quality of life. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is 
a noninvasive neuromodulation technique, which can increase or decrease the
cortical excitability in the brain region to which it is applied. tDCS has been
used for tinnitus research since 2006. Objective. To investigate whether tDCS
affects tinnitus perception, related emotion, or both, and the potential
implications for tinnitus management. Methods. A scoping review was undertaken
using the methods proposed by Arksey and O'Malley. After initial consideration of
title relevance and reading abstracts, 15 studies were included in this review.
The data from these studies were charted to investigate the impact of tDCS on
tinnitus perception and emotions. Results. tDCS results in transient suppression 
of tinnitus loudness and annoyance; however, it does not lead to long-term impact
on tinnitus related emotion. Local stimulation of different sites of stimulation 
(left temporoparietal area, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and auditory cortex) 
might modulate tinnitus perception (loudness) and emotions differently; however, 
further research is needed to explore this hypothesis. This review has identified
aspects of methodologies that require attention in upcoming tinnitus and tDCS
trials to offer better insights. Conclusions. tDCS is an effective research tool 
for transient tinnitus neuromodulation. However, efforts should be invested in
designing clinical trials using local and multiple sites of stimulation,
optimized parameters, and objective outcome measures before it can be translated 
in to a clinical tool for tinnitus management.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25670225  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


89. Strahlenther Onkol. 2015 Feb 10. [Epub ahead of print]

A teaching intervention in a contouring dummy run improved target volume
delineation in locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer : Reducing the
interobserver variability in multicentre clinical studies.

Schimek-Jasch T(1), Troost EG, Rücker G, Prokic V, Avlar M, Duncker-Rohr V, Mix
M, Doll C, Grosu AL, Nestle U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Medical Center Freiburg,
Robert-Koch-Str. 3, 79106, Freiburg, Germany,
tanja.schimek-jasch@uniklinik-freiburg.de.

INTRODUCTION: Interobserver variability in the definition of target volumes (TVs)
is a well-known confounding factor in (multicentre) clinical studies employing
radiotherapy. Therefore, detailed contouring guidelines are provided in the
prospective randomised multicentre PET-Plan (NCT00697333) clinical trial
protocol. This trial compares strictly FDG-PET-based TV delineation with
conventional TV delineation in patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC). Despite detailed contouring guidelines, their interpretation by
different radiation oncologists can vary considerably, leading to undesirable
discrepancies in TV delineation. Considering this, as part of the PET-Plan study 
quality assurance (QA), a contouring dummy run (DR) consisting of two phases was 
performed to analyse the interobserver variability before and after teaching.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the first phase of the DR (DR1), radiation oncologists 
from 14 study centres were asked to delineate TVs as defined by the study
protocol (gross TV, GTV; and two clinical TVs, CTV-A and CTV-B) in a test
patient. A teaching session was held at a study group meeting, including a
discussion of the results focussing on discordances in comparison to the
per-protocol solution. Subsequently, the second phase of the DR (DR2) was
performed in order to evaluate the impact of teaching.
RESULTS: Teaching after DR1 resulted in a reduction of absolute TVs in DR2, as
well as in better concordance of TVs. The Overall Kappa(κ) indices increased from
0.63 to 0.71 (GTV), 0.60 to 0.65 (CTV-A) and from 0.59 to 0.63 (CTV-B),
demonstrating improvements in overall interobserver agreement.
CONCLUSION: Contouring DRs and study group meetings as part of QA in multicentre 
clinical trials help to identify misinterpretations of per-protocol TV
delineation. Teaching the correct interpretation of protocol contouring
guidelines leads to a reduction in interobserver variability and to more
consistent contouring, which should consequently improve the validity of the
overall study results.

PMID: 25665799  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


90. Support Care Cancer. 2015 Feb 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Measurement of chemotherapy-induced alopecia-time to change.

van den Hurk CJ(1), Winstanley J, Young A, Boyle F.

Author information: 
(1)Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer Organisation, Eindhoven, The Netherlands,
c.vandenhurk@iknl.nl.

Data on chemotherapy-induced alopecia (CIA) as a side effect of cancer treatment 
are scarce. CIA is given minimal attention in clinical trials and in the
literature. However, when asking the patients with cancer for their opinion, CIA 
appears to have a major impact, particularly on body image and quality of life.
Currently, there is no commonly used measure to evaluate CIA; It is time to
improve the management and measurement of CIA.

PMID: 25663579  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


91. Support Care Cancer. 2015 Feb 10. [Epub ahead of print]

Minimal clinically important differences in the EORTC QLQ-BN20 in patients with
brain metastases.

Wong E(1), Zhang L, Kerba M, Foro Arnalot P, Danielson B, Tsao M, Bedard G,
Thavarajah N, Cheon P, Danjoux C, Pulenzas N, Chow E.

Author information: 
(1)Rapid Response Radiotherapy Program, Department of Radiation Oncology, Odette 
Cancer Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of Toronto, 2075
Bayview Avenue, Toronto, ON, Canada, M4N 3M5.

INTRODUCTION: Quality of life (QOL) is an important treatment endpoint in
advanced cancer patients with brain metastases. In clinical trials, statistically
significant changes can be reached in a large enough population; however, these
changes may not be clinically relevant.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine the minimal clinically
important difference (MCID) for the European Organization for Research and
Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire brain module (EORTC QLQ-BN20)
in patients with brain metastases.
METHODS: Patients undergoing radiotherapy for brain metastases completed the
EORTC QLQ-BN20 and QLQ-C30/C15-PAL at baseline and 1-month follow-up. MCIDs were 
calculated for both improvement and deterioration using anchor- and
distribution-based approaches. The anchor of overall QOL (as assessed by question
30 or question 15 on the QLQ-C30 and QLQ-C15-PAL, respectively) was used to
determine meaningful change.
RESULTS: A total of 99 patients were included. The average age was 61 years, and 
the most common primary cancer sites were the lung and breast. Statistically
significant meaningful differences were seen on two scales. A decrease of 6.1
(95 % confidence interval (CI) 0.8 to 11.4) units and 13.8 (0.2 to 27.4) units
was required to represent clinically relevant deterioration of seizures and
weakness of legs, respectively. Distribution-based MCID estimates tended to be
closer to 0.5 SD on the EORTC QLQ-BN20.
CONCLUSION: Understanding MCIDs allows physicians to determine the impact of
treatment on patients' QOL and allows for determination of sample sizes for
clinical trials. Future studies should be conducted to validate our findings in a
larger population of patients with brain metastases.

PMID: 25663577  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


92. World J Clin Oncol. 2015 Feb 10;6(1):7-15. doi: 10.5306/wjco.v6.i1.7.

Optimal management of the elderly patient with head and neck cancer: Issues
regarding surgery, irradiation and chemotherapy.

Mountzios G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Giannis Mountzios, Department of Medical Oncology, 251 Airforce General
Hospital, 115 25 Athens, Greece.

Head and neck cancer (HNC) represents the sixth most common malignancy and
accounts for approximately 6% of new cancer cases annually worldwide. As life
expectancy constantly increases, the onset of HNC in patients older than 65 years
of age at diagnosis is not rare and up to one fourth of cases occurs in patients 
older that 70 years at age. Because elderly cancer patients are severely
under-represented in clinical trials, there is a clear need to address the
particular aspects of this specific patient group, especially in the context of
novel multidisciplinary therapeutic approaches. The frailty of elderly patients
with HNC is attributed to the high incidence of smoking and alcohol abuse in this
malignancy and the presence of substantial cardiovascular, respiratory or
metabolic comorbidities. In the current work, I provide an overview of current
and emerging treatment approaches, in elderly patients with HNC. In particular, I
discuss modern surgical approaches that improve radical excision rates while
preserving functionality, the incorporation of modern radiotherapeutic techniques
and the introduction of novel chemotherapeutic combinations and molecular
targeted agents in an effort to reduce toxicity without compromising efficacy.
Finally, there is an urgent need to increase accrual and active participation of 
elderly patients with HNC in clinical trials, including biomarker evaluation in
biopsy specimens towards an individualized therapeutic approach.

PMCID: PMC4318746
PMID: 25667910  [PubMed]


93. Acta Paediatr. 2015 Feb 9. doi: 10.1111/apa.12924. [Epub ahead of print]

Unlicensed and Off-label Drug Use: A Prospective Study In French NICU.

Riou S(1), Plaisant F, Maucort Boulch D, Kassai B, Claris O, Nguyen KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of neonatal intensive care unit, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Hôpital
Femme Mère Enfant, Lyon 1 University, Lyon, France.

Off-label and unlicensed drug use to treat children is widespread in various
countries (1). Because of insufficient clinical trials in pediatric population,
health professionals are forced to extrapolate the results of studies carried out
on adults. A systematic review including thirty international studies on
off-label/unlicensed (OLUL) neonatal prescription shows the rates of such usage
ranging from 55 to 80% (2). In France, data of such prescription in neonates is
lacking. For that reason, we aimed to update information on the extent of OLUL
prescriptions in neonates. This article is protected by copyright. All rights
reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25669964  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


94. Age Ageing. 2015 Feb 9. pii: afv007. [Epub ahead of print]

New horizons in testosterone and the ageing male.

Ahern T(1), Wu FC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Andrology Research Unit, Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS
Foundation Trust, Old St Mary's Building, Hathersage Road, Manchester M13 9WL,
UK.

The fall in testosterone levels with age appears to be a real phenomenon.
Declining testicular function and hypothalamic dysregulation appear to be the
mechanisms explaining the fall in testosterone levels with age. The increased
prevalence of obesity and chronic illness in ageing men both cause a large drop
in testosterone levels independent of ageing. Age-related hypogonadism appears to
be different to other 'classical' causes of hypogonadism. Testosterone levels are
not unequivocally low and associated symptoms are non-specific. In frail older
men with low testosterone levels, testosterone therapy appears to improve QOL and
physical function. In less frail men, however, effects of testosterone therapy in
the ageing male are small and/or inconsistent. There remains an urgent need for
randomised clinical trials with sufficient size, duration and power to determine 
specific benefits and risks of testosterone therapy in older men.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25666224  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


95. Am J Hypertens. 2015 Feb 9. pii: hpu292. [Epub ahead of print]

Systolic Blood Pressure Control Among Individuals With Type 2 Diabetes: A
Comparative Effectiveness Analysis of Three Interventions.

Espeland MA(1), Probstfield J(2), Hire D(3), Redmon JB(4), Evans GW(3), Coday
M(5), Lewis CE(6), Johnson KC(5), Wilmoth S(3), Bahnson J(3), Dulin MF(7), Green 
JB(8), Knowler WC(9), Kitabchi A(5), Murillo AL(2), Osei K(10), Rehman SU(11),
Cushman WC(12); the Look AHEAD Research Group; the ACCORD Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA;
mespelan@wakehealth.edu. (2)University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA;
(3)Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA;
(4)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA; (5)The University of
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA; (6)The University of
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA; (7)Carolinas Medical Center,
Charlotte, North Carolina, USA; (8)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina, USA; (9)Diabetes Epidemiology and Clinical Research Section, NIDDK,
Phoenix, Arizona, USA; (10)Internal Medicine, Ohio State University, Columbus,
Ohio, USA; (11)Phoenix VA Health Care System, Phoenix, Arizona, USA; (12)Veterans
Affairs Medical Center, Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.

BACKGROUND: The relative effectiveness of 3 approaches to blood pressure
control-(i) an intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) focused on weight loss,
(ii) frequent goal-based monitoring of blood pressure with pharmacological
management, and (iii) education and support-has not been established among
overweight and obese adults with type 2 diabetes who are appropriate for each
intervention.
METHODS: Participants from the Action for Health in Diabetes (Look AHEAD) and the
Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) cohorts who met
criteria for both clinical trials were identified. The proportions of these
individuals with systolic blood pressure (SBP) <140mm Hg from annual standardized
assessments over time were compared with generalized estimating equations.
RESULTS: Across 4 years among 480 Look AHEAD and 1,129 ACCORD participants with
baseline SBPs between 130 and 159mm Hg, ILI (OR = 1.46; 95% CI = [1.18-1.81]) and
frequent goal-based monitoring with pharmacotherapy (OR = 1.51; 95% CI =
[1.16-1.97]) yielded higher rates of blood pressure control compared to education
and support. The intensive behavioral-based intervention may have been more
effective among individuals with body mass index >30kg/m(2), while frequent
goal-based monitoring with medication management may be more effective among
individuals with lower body mass index (interaction P = 0.047).
CONCLUSIONS: Among overweight and obese adults with type 2 diabetes, both ILI and
frequent goal-based monitoring with pharmacological management can be successful 
strategies for blood pressure control.
CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRY: clinicaltrials.gov identifiers NCT00017953 (Look AHEAD)
and NCT00000620 (ACCORD).

© American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd 2015. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25666468  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


96. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 2015 Feb 9. pii: 0003489415570930. [Epub ahead of
print]

Laryngotracheal Stenosis as a Complication of Photodynamic Therapy.

Kim IA(1), Long J(2).

Author information: 
(1)UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine, Head & Neck Surgery, Los Angeles,
California, USA iakim@mednet.ucla.edu. (2)UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine,
Head & Neck Surgery, Los Angeles, California, USA Greater Los Angeles VAMC, Los
Angeles, California, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Photodynamic therapy (PDT) has been proposed as an effective treatment
for mucosal carcinomas such as early-stage laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma. Its
advantage over other conventional modalities (surgery and chemoradiation) lies in
its ability to treat disease while preserving the function and structure of the
larynx. While not FDA-approved in the United States, it is used in some countries
as a treatment for laryngeal cancer and is an area of active investigation. This 
report documents a severe complication of tracheostomy-dependent laryngotracheal 
stenosis resulting from PDT.
METHODS: Methods include a case report and review of the literature.
RESULTS: A 65-year-old male presented with severe stenosis of the supraglottic,
glottic, and subglottic larynx following successful treatment of his laryngeal
carcinoma with PDT. His presentation, staged airway reconstruction, and outcome
are detailed.
CONCLUSION: PDT is a minimally invasive technique which in early clinical trials 
has matched the effectiveness of conventional therapies for treating early head
and neck squamous cell cancers. It uses a photosensitizing agent that is retained
by tumor cells, allowing for the selective destruction of neoplastic cells.
Permanent sequelae following treatment have rarely been reported; the most
commonly described adverse effects include pain, hoarseness, and phototoxicity.
However, our case report discusses the potential for significant laryngotracheal 
stenosis requiring airway reconstruction following PDT.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25667216  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


97. Ann Pharmacother. 2015 Feb 9. pii: 1060028015570467. [Epub ahead of print]

Suvorexant: A Dual Orexin Receptor Antagonist for the Treatment of Sleep Onset
and Sleep Maintenance Insomnia.

Patel KV(1), Aspesi AV(1), Evoy KE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center, Mishawaka, IN, USA. (2)Saint Joseph
Regional Medical Center, Mishawaka, IN, USA kirkevoy@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To review the efficacy, safety, and pharmacology data available for
suvorexant and determine its role in therapy as compared with other agents
available for the treatment of insomnia.
DATA SOURCES: A PubMed search using the terms suvorexant and MK-4305 (the
original name given to suvorexant during early trials) was conducted in December 
2014 to identify initial literature sources. No time frame was used for exclusion
of older trials.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Animal studies and trials written in a
language other than English were excluded. Abstracts of the remaining trials were
evaluated for determination of relevance to this review. References from these
studies along with suvorexant prescriber information were used to identify
additional literature.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Three randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical
trials were identified showing suvorexant to be safe, effective, and tolerable
for the treatment of insomnia. After 4 weeks of therapy, relative to placebo, the
10- and 20-mg doses improved subjective total sleep time (22.3 and 49.9 minutes, 
respectively), wake after sleep onset (-21.4 and -28.1 minutes), and latency to
persistent sleep (-2.3 and -22.3 minutes).
CONCLUSION: Suvorexant is the first dual orexin receptor antagonist approved for 
the treatment of insomnia. Clinical trials have shown that it is relatively safe 
and effective for the treatment of both sleep onset and sleep maintenance at
doses of 20 mg or less. Higher doses were studied but not approved because of
concerns for next-day somnolence and effects on driving. Further studies are
needed to assess this medication in patients with a history of addiction, because
they were excluded from clinical trials, as well as to compare suvorexant with
other insomnia medications available because no head-to-head studies have yet
been conducted. However, its novel mechanism of action and theoretically lower
addiction liability make suvorexant an appealing new option.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25667197  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


98. BMJ Open. 2015 Feb 9;5(2):e007091. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-007091.

Effectiveness of a multifactorial intervention on preventing development of
frailty in pre-frail older people: study protocol for a randomised controlled
trial.

Fairhall N(1), Kurrle SE(2), Sherrington C(3), Lord SR(4), Lockwood K(2), John
B(2), Monaghan N(1), Howard K(5), Cameron ID(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rehabilitation Studies Unit, Sydney Medical School, The University of Sydney, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (2)Division of Rehabilitation and Aged Care, 
Hornsby Ku-ring-gai Health Service, Hornsby, New South Wales, Australia. (3)The
George Institute for International Health, Sydney Medical School, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (4)Neuroscience Research
Australia, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(5)School of Public Health, Sydney Medical School, The University of Sydney,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Frailty is a major concern due to its costly and widespread
consequences, yet evidence of effective interventions to delay or reduce frailty 
is lacking. Our previous study found that a multifactorial intervention was
feasible and effective in reducing frailty in older people who were already
frail. Identifying and treating people in the pre-frail state may be an effective
means to prevent or delay frailty. This study describes a randomised controlled
trial that aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a multifactorial intervention on
development of frailty in older people who are pre-frail.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A single centre randomised controlled trial with concealed 
allocation, assessor blinding and intention-to-treat analysis. Two hundred and
thirty people aged above 70 who meet the Cardiovascular Health Study frailty
criteria for pre-frailty, reside in the community and are without severe
cognitive impairment will be recruited. Participants will be randomised to
receive a multifactorial intervention or usual care. The intervention group will 
receive a 12-month interdisciplinary intervention targeting identified
characteristics of frailty and problems identified during geriatric assessment.
Participants will be followed for a 12-month period. Primary outcome measures
will be degree of frailty measured by the number of Cardiovascular Health Study
frailty criteria present, and mobility measured with the Short Physical
Performance Battery. Secondary outcomes will include measures of mobility, mood
and use of health and community services.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study was approved by the Northern Sydney Local
Health District Health Research Ethics Committee (1207-213M). The findings will
be disseminated through scientific and professional conferences, and in
peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry:
ACTRN12613000043730.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25667151  [PubMed - in process]


99. Br J Pharmacol. 2015 Feb 9. doi: 10.1111/bph.13110. [Epub ahead of print]

A Novel CGRP-neutralizing Spiegelmer Attenuates Neurogenic Plasma Protein
Extravasation.

Hoehlig K(1), Johnson KW, Pryazhnikov E, Maasch C, Clemens-Smith A, Purschke WG, 
Vauléon S, Buchner K, Jarosch F, Khiroug L, Vater A, Klussmann S.

Author information: 
(1)NOXXON Pharma AG, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) plays an important
role in the pathology of migraine and recent clinical trials suggest the
inhibition of CGRP-mediated processes as a new therapeutic option in migraine. In
this study we describe the generation of NOX-L41, a CGRP-neutralizing
mirror-image (l-)aptamer (Spiegelmer) and investigate its in vitro and in vivo
function.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: A CGRP-binding Spiegelmer was identified by in vitro
selection. Binding studies were performed using surface plasmon resonance (SPR)
and the inhibitory activity was determined in cell-based assays. The
pharmacokinetic profile comparing intravenous and subcutaneous dosing was
analyzed in rats. Intravital two-photon microscopy was employed to follow
extravasation from meningeal vessels. Finally, in vivo efficacy was tested in a
model of electrically evoked meningeal plasma protein extravasation (PPE) in
rats.
KEY RESULTS: We identified NOX-L41, a novel CGRP-neutralizing Spiegelmer. SPR
studies show that NOX-L41 binds to human and rat/mouse CGRP with sub-nanomolar
affinities and is highly selective against related peptides such as amylin. In
vitro, NOX-L41 effectively inhibits CGRP-induced cAMP formation in SK-N-MC cells.
In rats, NOX-L41 has a plasma half-life of 8 hours. Pharmacodynamic studies show 
that NOX-L41 extravasates from blood vessels in the dura mater and inhibits
neurogenic meningeal PPE for at least 18 hours after single dosing.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: This is the first description of the
CGRP-neutralizing Spiegelmer NOX-L41. Pre-clinical studies confirm a role of CGRP
in neurogenic PPE and provide proof-of-concept for the potential use of this new 
drug candidate for the treatment or prevention of migraine.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659966  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


100. Curr Med Chem. 2015 Feb 9. [Epub ahead of print]

Trends in mitochondrial therapeutics for neurological disease.

Leitão-Rocha A, Guedes-Dias P, Pinho BR, Oliveira JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drug Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, Rua
Jorge Viterbo Ferreira, 228, 4050-313 Porto, Portugal.. jorgemao@ff.up.pt.

Neuronal homeostasis is critically dependent on healthy mitochondria. Mutations
in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), in nuclear-encoded mitochondrial components, and
age-dependent mitochondrial damage, have all been connected with neurological
disorders. These include not only typical mitochondrial syndromes with
neurological features such as encephalomyopathy, myoclonic epilepsy, neuropathy
and ataxia; but also secondary mitochondrial involvement in neurodegenerative
disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's disease. Unravelling 
the molecular aetiology of mitochondrial dysfunction opens new therapeutic
prospects for diseases thus far lacking effective treatments. In this review we
address recent advances on preventive strategies, such as pronuclear,
spindle-chromosome complex, or polar body genome transfer to replace mtDNA and
avoid disease transmission to newborns; we also address experimental
mitochondrial therapeutics aiming to benefit symptomatic patients and prevent
disease manifestation in those at risk. Specifically, we focus on: (1) gene
therapy to reduce mutant mtDNA, such as anti-replicative therapies and
mitochondria-targeted nucleases allowing favourable heteroplasmic shifts; (2)
allotopic expression of recoded wild-type mitochondrial genes, including targeted
tRNAs and xenotopic expression of cognate genes to compensate for pathogenic
mutations; (3) mitochondria targeted-peptides and lipophilic cations for in vivo 
delivery of antioxidants or other putative therapeutics; and (4) modulation of
mitochondrial dynamics at the level of biogenesis, fission, fusion, movement and 
mitophagy. Further advances in therapeutic development are hindered by scarce in 
vivo models for mitochondrial disease, with the bulk of available data coming
from cellular models. Nevertheless, wherever available, we also address data from
in vivo experiments and clinical trials, focusing on neurological disease models.

PMID: 25666789  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


101. Curr Med Res Opin. 2015 Feb 9:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

The epidemiology and targeted therapies for relapsed and refractory CD30+
lymphomas.

Macalalad AR(1), McAuliffe M, Yang H, Kageleiry A, Zhong Y, Wu EQ, Shonukan O,
Bonthapally V.

Author information: 
(1)Analysis Group Inc. , Boston, MA , USA.

Abstract Background: Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and systemic anaplastic large cell
lymphoma (sALCL) both have consistent expression of CD30, a cytokine receptor
that is expressed by activated T and B cells but is largely absent from normal
tissue. Methods: A literature search was conducted via PubMed, Google Scholar,
and UpToDate to identify relevant peer-reviewed original research or review
articles on HL, sALCL, and CD30 targeted therapies. Results: These lymphomas are 
both more common among males, young adults and the elderly. Although many
patients with HL and sALCL can achieve long-term remission after standard
first-line therapy, up to a third of these patients are refractory to or relapse 
after initial therapy. Among these relapsed/refractory patients, many experience 
disease progression and/or death despite subsequent treatment, and
treatment-related adverse events and mortality are not uncommon. To address the
need for safer and more effective therapies for these relapsed/refractory
patients, researchers have developed therapies that specifically target
CD30-expressing cells. Brentuximab vedotin, an antibody-drug conjugate that
selectively delivers a toxic microtubule-disrupting agent to malignant cells with
CD30 expression, is the first such therapy to be approved in the US and Europe.
In clinical trials, brentuximab vedotin has demonstrated efficacy and safety in
patients with HL after failure of autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT), or
after failure of at least two prior multi-agent chemotherapy regimens in patients
who are not ASCT candidates, and in patients with sALCL after failure of at least
one prior multi-agent chemotherapy regimen. Conclusion: HL and sALCL are both
CD30+ lymphomas, and therapies like brentuximab vedotin that target cells
expressing CD30 hold promise for the treatment of these diseases.

PMID: 25598441  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


102. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2015 Feb 9:1-16. [Epub ahead of print]

Treating pulmonary hypertension in pediatrics.

Lador F(1), Sekarski N, Beghetti M.

Author information: 
(1)Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève, Département des Spécialités de Médecine,
Service de Pneumologie, Programme Hypertension Pulmonaire , Geneva , Switzerland.

Introduction: Pulmonary hypertension is a hemodynamic condition occurring rarely 
in pediatrics. Nevertheless, it is associated with significant morbidity and
mortality. When characterized by progressive pulmonary vascular structural
changes, the disease is called pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). It results 
in increased pulmonary vascular resistance and eventual right ventricular
failure. In the vast majority of cases, pediatric PAH is idiopathic or associated
with congenital heart disease, and, contrary to adult PAH, is rarely associated
with connective tissue, portal hypertension, HIV infection or thromboembolic
disease. Areas covered: This article reviews the current drug therapies available
for the management of pediatric PAH. These treatments target the recognized
pathophysiological pathways of PAH with endothelin-1 receptor antagonists,
prostacyclin analogs and PDE type 5 inhibitors. New treatments and explored
pathways are briefly discussed. Expert opinion: Although there is still no cure
for PAH, quality of life and survival have been improved significantly with
specific drug therapies. Nevertheless, management of pediatric PAH remains
challenging, and depends mainly on results from adult clinical trials and
pediatric experts. Further research on PAH-specific treatments in the pediatric
population and data from international registries are needed to identify optimal 
therapeutic strategies and treatment goals in the pediatric population.

PMID: 25665593  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


103. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2015 Feb 9:1-8. [Epub ahead of print]

Oritavancin, a single-dose, complete regimen, for the treatment of acute
bacterial skin and skin structure infections.

Wu G(1), Truong J, Lee S, Elnadoury O, Kuan W, Abraham T, Wu A, Liu M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, New York Methodist Hospital, 506 6th Street, Brooklyn,
NY 11215, USA.

Oritavancin, a lipoglycopeptide antibiotic, recently received US FDA approval for
the treatment of adult patients with acute bacterial skin and skin structure
infections (ABSSSI). Oritavancin, unlike other intravenous antibiotics that are
currently available for the treatment of ABSSSI (e.g., vancomycin, daptomycin,
telavancin, dalbavancin), offers the option of a single-dose complete regimen.
The dosing schedule of oritavancin eliminates the need for an indwelling catheter
and introduces the possibility of avoidance of a hospital admission; although,
treatment in non-hospital settings has not been adequately evaluated in clinical 
trials. The availability of oritavancin adds another agent to our antibiotic
armamentarium providing dosing flexibility and an alternative treatment option
for treatment of ABSSSI caused by susceptible bacteria, including
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

PMID: 25661747  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


104. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2015 Feb 9:1-10. [Epub ahead of print]

Risk of fatigue in patients with solid tumors treated with everolimus,
temsirolimus or ridaforolimus: a comparative meta-analysis.

Abdel-Rahman O(1), Fouad M.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Oncology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University,
Cairo, Egypt.

We performed a meta-analysis of fatigue associated with the use of everolimus,
temsirolimus or ridaforolimus in patients with solid tumors. Eligible studies
included randomized trials of patients with solid tumors on everolimus,
temsirolimus or ridaforolimus describing events of fatigue. A total of 18
clinical trials including 8143 patients were considered eligible for the
meta-analysis. On the basis of random-effects model, we found that the relative
risk of all-grade and high-grade fatigue were 1.26 [95% CI: 1.09-1.46; p <
0.0001], 1.49 [95% CI: 0.99, 2.24; p = 0.05], respectively. On subgroup analysis,
we cannot identify any difference between everolimus and temsirolimus in the risk
of fatigue. Thus, our meta-analysis has demonstrated that regimens containing
everolimus, temsirolimus or ridaforolimus for the treatment of solid tumors are
associated with an increased risk of all-grade fatigue, whereas the risk of
high-grade fatigue did not reach the threshold of statistical significance. Close
clinical monitoring and pre-emptive treatment for fatigue are recommended.

PMID: 25665062  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


105. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2015 Feb 9:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Risk of selected gastrointestinal toxicities in patients with advanced non-small 
cell lung cancer receiving erlotinib: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Abdel-Rahman O(1), Fouad M.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Clinical Oncology Department, Ain Shams University,
Cairo, Egypt.

We performed a meta-analysis of diarrhea and stomatitis associated with erlotinib
use in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Eligible studies
included randomized trials of patients with non-small cell lung cancer on
erlotinib describing events of diarrhea and stomatitis. A total of 19 clinical
trials including 7524 patients were considered eligible for the meta-analysis.
The relative risk of all-grade diarrhea and stomatitis were 2.96 (95% CI:
2.31-3.8; p < 0.00001), 3.62 (95% CI: 2.43-5.39; p = 0.00001), respectively,
whereas the relative risk of high-grade diarrhea and stomatitis were 4.65 (95%
CI: 3.30-6.55; p < 0.00001), 2.63 (95% CI: 0.83-8.27; p = 0.1), respectively. Our
meta-analysis has demonstrated that regimens containing erlotinib for the
treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer are associated with a
significantly increased risk of all-grade diarrhea, stomatitis and high-grade
diarrhea. Close clinical monitoring is required when using and administering this
drug.

PMID: 25664933  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


106. Expert Rev Neurother. 2015 Feb 9:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Progress in the treatment of small fiber peripheral neuropathy.

Chiang MC(1), Tseng MT, Pan CL, Chao CC, Hsieh ST.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei,
Taiwan.

Small fiber neuropathy is a syndrome of diverse disease etiology because of
multiple pathophysiologic mechanisms with major presentations of neuropathic pain
and autonomic symptoms. Over the past decade, there has been substantial progress
in the treatments for neuropathic pain, dysautonomia and disease-modifying
strategy. In particular, anticonvulsants and antidepressants alleviate
neuropathic pain based on randomized clinical trials.

PMID: 25664678  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


107. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2015 Feb 9:0. [Epub ahead of print]

The use of urine in the follow-up of HPV vaccine trials.

Vorsters A(1), Van Keer S, Van Damme P.

Author information: 
(1)a University of Antwerp ; Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences ; Vaccine & 
Infectious Disease Institute ; Centre for the Evaluation of Vaccination ; Campus 
Drie Eiken (room R2.14); Universiteitsplein 1; 2610 Antwerpen (Wilrijk) - Belgium
. Tel: 32-3-265.26.64.

Abstract Prevention and treatment of human papillomavirus related cervical cancer
through vaccination is a relative new field with many scientific, technological
and implementational challenges requiring numerous new clinical trials. The
initial prophylactic HPV vaccine trials allowed to set new end-points based on
persistent infection in order to determine vaccine efficacy for prevention of
cervical cancer. Major progress has been made regarding detection of HPV DNA in
urine and high correlations between urinary HPV DNA and cervical infections have 
been established. Urine sampling has a number of assets such as its non-invasive 
character, and allowing for self-collection at home creating options to simplify 
follow-up of HPV in women participating in HPV vaccine efficacy trials. The
current reported variability in urinary HPV sampling and detection can be
overcome through relative simple sampling and testing guidelines. Determining
persistent infection or lack of therapy response by urinary HPV detection may be 
an interesting approach to assess a viral end-point in HPV prophylactic and
therapeutic vaccine efficacy trials for women.

PMID: 25664398  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


108. J Clin Oncol. 2015 Feb 9. pii: JCO.2014.58.3302. [Epub ahead of print]

Crizotinib Therapy for Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma and a ROS1 Rearrangement:
Results From the EUROS1 Cohort.

Mazières J(1), Zalcman G(2), Crinò L(2), Biondani P(2), Barlesi F(2), Filleron
T(2), Dingemans AM(2), Léna H(2), Monnet I(2), Rothschild SI(2), Cappuzzo F(2),
Besse B(2), Thiberville L(2), Rouvière D(2), Dziadziuszko R(2), Smit EF(2), Wolf 
J(2), Spirig C(2), Pecuchet N(2), Leenders F(2), Heuckmann JM(2), Diebold J(2),
Milia JD(2), Thomas RK(2), Gautschi O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Julien Mazières, Damien Rouvière, and Julie D. Milia, Hôpital Larrey, Centre
Hospitalier Universitaire, Université Paul Sabatier; Thomas Filleron, Institut
Universitaire du Cancer, Toulouse; Gérard Zalcman, Centre Hospitalier
Universitaire, Université de Caen-Basse Normandie, Caen; Pamela Biondani and
Benjamin Besse, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif; Fabrice Barlesi, Aix-Marseille
University, Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille, Marseille; Hervé Léna,
Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Rennes; Isabelle Monnet, Centre Hospitalier
Intercommunal de Créteil, Créteil; Luc Thiberville, Centre Hospitalier
Universitaire, Rouen; Nicolas Pecuchet, Institut Curie, Paris, France; Lucio
Crinò, Medica-Azienda Ospedaliera, Perugia; Federico Cappuzzo, Istituto Toscano
Tumori, Ospedale Civile, Livorno, Italy; Anne-Marie C. Dingemans, Maastricht
University Medical Center, Maastricht; Egbert F. Smit, VU University Medical
Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Sacha I. Rothschild, University Hospital
Basel, Medical Oncology, Basel; Christian Spirig, Klinik St Anna; Joachim Diebold
and Oliver Gautschi, Cantonal Hospital Luzern, Lucerne, Switzerland; Rafal
Dziadziuszko, Gdansk Medical University, Gdansk, Poland; Jurgen Wolf and Roman K.
Thomas, Center of Integrated Oncology Köln-Bonn, University Hospital Cologne,
University of Cologne; Frauke Leenders and Roman K. Thomas, University of
Cologne; Johannes M. Heuckmann, Blackfield AG, Cologne, Germany.
mazieres.j@chu-toulouse.fr. (2)Julien Mazières, Damien Rouvière, and Julie D.
Milia, Hôpital Larrey, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Université Paul
Sabatier; Thomas Filleron, Institut Universitaire du Cancer, Toulouse; Gérard
Zalcman, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Université de Caen-Basse Normandie,
Caen; Pamela Biondani and Benjamin Besse, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif; Fabrice
Barlesi, Aix-Marseille University, Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille,
Marseille; Hervé Léna, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Rennes; Isabelle Monnet,
Centre Hospitalier Intercommunal de Créteil, Créteil; Luc Thiberville, Centre
Hospitalier Universitaire, Rouen; Nicolas Pecuchet, Institut Curie, Paris,
France; Lucio Crinò, Medica-Azienda Ospedaliera, Perugia; Federico Cappuzzo,
Istituto Toscano Tumori, Ospedale Civile, Livorno, Italy; Anne-Marie C.
Dingemans, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht; Egbert F. Smit, VU
University Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Sacha I. Rothschild,
University Hospital Basel, Medical Oncology, Basel; Christian Spirig, Klinik St
Anna; Joachim Diebold and Oliver Gautschi, Cantonal Hospital Luzern, Lucerne,
Switzerland; Rafal Dziadziuszko, Gdansk Medical University, Gdansk, Poland;
Jurgen Wolf and Roman K. Thomas, Center of Integrated Oncology Köln-Bonn,
University Hospital Cologne, University of Cologne; Frauke Leenders and Roman K. 
Thomas, University of Cologne; Johannes M. Heuckmann, Blackfield AG, Cologne,
Germany.

PURPOSE: Approximately 1% of lung adenocarcinomas are driven by oncogenic ROS1
rearrangement. Crizotinib is a potent inhibitor of both ROS1 and ALK kinase
domains.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In the absence of a prospective clinical trial in Europe,
we conducted a retrospective study in centers that tested for ROS1 rearrangement.
Eligible patients had stage IV lung adenocarcinoma, had ROS1 rearrangement
according to fluorescent in situ hybridization, and had received crizotinib
therapy through an individual off-label use. Best response was assessed locally
using RECIST (version 1.1). All other data were analyzed centrally.
RESULTS: We identified 32 eligible patients. One patient was excluded because
next-generation sequencing was negative for ROS1 fusion. Median age was 50.5
years, 64.5% of patients were women, and 67.7% were never-smokers. Thirty
patients were evaluable for progression-free survival (PFS), and 29 patients were
evaluable for best response. We observed four patients with disease progression, 
two patients with stable disease, and objective response in 24 patients,
including five complete responses (overall response rate, 80%; disease control
rate, 86.7%). Median PFS was 9.1 months, and the PFS rate at 12 months was 44%.
No unexpected adverse effects were observed. Twenty-six patients received
pemetrexed (either alone or in combination with platinum and either before or
after crizotinib) and had a response rate of 57.7% and a median PFS of 7.2
months.
CONCLUSION: Crizotinib was highly active at treating lung cancer in patients with
a ROS1 rearrangement, suggesting that patients with lung adenocarcinomas should
be tested for ROS1. Prospective clinical trials with crizotinib and other ROS1
inhibitors are ongoing or planned.

© 2015 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

PMID: 25667280  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


109. J Consult Clin Psychol. 2015 Feb 9. [Epub ahead of print]

The Efficacy of a Personalized Feedback-Only Intervention for At-Risk College
Gamblers.

Martens MP, Arterberry BJ, Takamatsu SK, Masters J, Dude K.

Objective: College students have been shown to be at higher risk than the general
adult population for gambling-related problems. Thus, the purpose of this study
was to examine the efficacy of a personalized feedback only intervention (PFB)
among at-risk college student gamblers. Method: Three hundred thirty-three
college students who met screening criteria were randomized into 1 of 3
conditions: PFB, education only (EDU), or assessment only (AO). Results: At
3-month follow-up, individuals in the PFB condition reported fewer dollars
gambled and fewer gambling-related problems than those in the AO condition. There
were no differences between those in the EDU and the AO conditions, or between
those in the PFB and the EDU conditions. Conclusion: These findings are
consistent with clinical trials examining other health behaviors, and have
implications for the development and delivery of effective intervention
programming for at-risk gamblers. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2015 APA, all
rights reserved).

PMID: 25664642  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


110. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2015 Feb 9. doi: 10.1111/jdv.12981. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Adalimumab in the treatment of moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis in
patients switching from other biologics.

Sator P(1), Richter L, Saxinger W, Vasiljevic M, Stingl G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Hospital Hietzing with Neurologic Centre
Rosenhügel, Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Ample evidence shows that switching from one biological agent to
another may prove effective when response to the first one is inadequate.
Nevertheless, there are little data so far showing the efficacy and safety of
adalimumab in patients with plaque psoriasis who previously received another
biologic agent.
OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the 1-year effectiveness, safety and quality-of-life
outcomes patients with psoriasis who had switched to adalimumab from other
biologic therapies.
METHODS: Forty-two patients who participated in this Austrian multicenter study
were treated with adalimumab over a 1-year period, after switching from
efalizumab, infliximab or etanercept. Effectiveness was assessed using
standardized tools for measurement of disease severity [Psoriasis Area and
Severity Index (PASI) and Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI)] and quality of
life [Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI)]. The study endpoints were evaluated 
using the all-treated population.
RESULTS: The mean percentage of improvement at the end of the study was 74.3% for
PASI, 81.6% for DLQI and 83.6% for NAPSI, demonstrating a considerable benefit of
treatment with adalimumab. The safety profile observed was consistent with
previous clinical trials for adalimumab, and no new safety signals were observed.
CONCLUSION: Adalimumab therapy in patients with plaque psoriasis previously
treated with other biologic agents demonstrates effectiveness, safety and
improvement in quality of life.

© 2015 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

PMID: 25665143  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


111. J Intern Med. 2015 Feb 9. doi: 10.1111/joim.12353. [Epub ahead of print]

Atheroprotective immunity and cardiovascular disease: therapeutic opportunities
and challenges.

Nilsson J(1), Lichtman A, Tegui A.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Cardiovascular Research Unit, Clinical Research Center, Clinical 
Sciences, Lund University, Sweden.

Emerging knowledge of the role of atheroprotective immune responses in modulating
inflammation and tissue repair in atherosclerotic lesions has provided promising 
opportunities to develop novel therapies directly targeting the disease process
in the artery wall. Regulatory T (Treg) cells have a protective role through
release of anti-inflammatory cytokines and suppression of auto-reactive effector 
T cells. Studies in experimental animals have shown that blocking the generation 
or action of Treg cells is associated with more aggressive development of
atherosclerosis. Conversely, cell transfer and other approaches to expand Treg
cell populations in vivo result in reduced atherosclerosis. There have been
relatively few clinical studies of Treg cells and cardiovascular disease but the 
available evidence also supports a protective function. These observations have
raised hope that it may be possible to develop therapies that act by enforcing
the suppressive activities of Treg cells in atherosclerotic lesions. One approach
to achieve this goal has been through development of vaccines that stimulate
immunological tolerance for plaque antigens. Several pilot vaccines based on
LDL-derived antigens have demonstrated promising results in preclinical testing. 
If such therapies can be shown to be effective also in clinical trials, this
could have an important impact on cardiovascular prevention and treatment. Here, 
we review the current knowledge of the mode of action of atheroprotective
immunity and of the ways to stimulate such pathways in experimental settings. The
challenges in translating this knowledge into the clinical setting are also
discussed within the perspective of the experience of introducing immune-based
therapies for other chronic non-infectious diseases. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659809  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


112. J Mol Recognit. 2015 Feb 9. doi: 10.1002/jmr.2418. [Epub ahead of print]

Epitope characterization of an anti-PD-L1 antibody using orthogonal approaches.

Hao G(1), Wesolowski JS, Jiang X, Lauder S, Sood VD.

Author information: 
(1)EMD Serono Research and Development Institute, Inc., 45A Middlesex Turnpike,
Billerica, MA, 02144, USA.

The binding of programmed death ligand 1 protein (PD-L1) to its receptor
programmed death protein 1 (PD-1) mediates immunoevasion in cancer and chronic
viral infections, presenting an important target for therapeutic intervention.
Several monoclonal antibodies targeting the PD-L1/PD-1 signaling axis are
undergoing clinical trials; however, the epitopes of these antibodies have not
been described. We have combined orthogonal approaches to localize and
characterize the epitope of a monoclonal antibody directed against PD-L1 at good 
resolution and with high confidence. Limited proteolysis and mass spectrometry
were applied to reveal that the epitope resides in the first immunoglobulin
domain of PD-L1. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) was used 
to identify a conformational epitope comprised of discontinuous strands that fold
to form a beta sheet in the native structure. This beta sheet presents an epitope
surface that significantly overlaps with the PD-1 binding interface, consistent
with a desired PD-1 competitive mechanism of action for the antibody. Surface
plasmon resonance screening of mutant PD-L1 variants confirmed that the region
identified by HDX-MS is critical for the antibody interaction and further defined
specific residues contributing to the binding energy. Taken together, the results
are consistent with the observed inhibitory activity of the antibody on
PD-L1-mediated immune evasion. This is the first report of an epitope for any
antibody targeting PD-L1 and demonstrates the power of combining orthogonal
epitope mapping techniques. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25664688  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


113. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Feb 9;107(4). pii: djv002. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djv002.
Print 2015 Apr.

Effect of prior cancer on outcomes in advanced lung cancer: implications for
clinical trial eligibility and accrual.

Laccetti AL(1), Pruitt SL(1), Xuan L(1), Halm EA(1), Gerber DE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (ALL, EAH, DEG), Department of Clinical
Sciences (SLP, LX, EAH), Harold C. Simmons Cancer Center (SLP, EAH, DEG),
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX. (2)Department of
Internal Medicine (ALL, EAH, DEG), Department of Clinical Sciences (SLP, LX,
EAH), Harold C. Simmons Cancer Center (SLP, EAH, DEG), University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX. david.gerber@utsouthwestern.edu.

BACKGROUND: Prior cancer is a common exclusion criterion in lung cancer trials.
This practice reflects concerns that prior cancer may affect trial conduct or
outcomes. However, the impact of prior cancer on survival in lung cancer is not
known.
METHODS: We identified patients older than age 65 years with stage IV lung cancer
diagnosed between 1992 and 2009 in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End
Results-Medicare linked registry. Prior cancer was characterized by type, stage, 
and timing. All-cause and lung cancer-specific survival were compared between
patients with and without prior cancer using propensity score-adjusted Cox
regression.
RESULTS: Overall, 102 929 patients with stage IV lung cancer were identified, of 
whom 14.7% had a history of prior cancer. More than two-thirds (76.0%) of prior
cancers were localized or regional stage; most were diagnosed five or fewer years
prior to the lung cancer diagnosis. In propensity score-adjusted analysis,
patients with prior cancer had better all-cause (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.93, 95%
confidence interval [CI] = 0.91 to 0.94) and lung cancer-specific (HR = 0.81, 95%
CI = 0.79 to 0.82) survival. In a simulated clinical trial-eligible population
(age <75 years, no comorbidity, treated with chemotherapy), similar trends were
noted. In subset analyses according to stage, type, and timing of prior cancer,
no group of patients with prior cancer had inferior survival compared with
patients without prior cancer.
CONCLUSION: Among patients with stage IV lung cancer, prior cancer does not
convey an adverse effect on clinical outcomes, regardless of prior cancer stage, 
type, or timing. Broader inclusion in clinical trials of advanced lung cancer
patients with a history of prior cancer should be considered.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25667420  [PubMed - in process]


114. JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Feb 9. doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.7774. [Epub ahead of
print]

Research Misconduct Identified by the US Food and Drug Administration: Out of
Sight, Out of Mind, Out of the Peer-Reviewed Literature.

Seife C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Arthur L. Carter Institute of Journalism at New York University, New York.

Importance: Every year, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspects
several hundred clinical sites performing biomedical research on human
participants and occasionally finds evidence of substantial departures from good 
clinical practice and research misconduct. However, the FDA has no systematic
method of communicating these findings to the scientific community, leaving open 
the possibility that research misconduct detected by a government agency goes
unremarked in the peer-reviewed literature.
Objectives: To identify published clinical trials in which an FDA inspection
found significant evidence of objectionable conditions or practices, to describe 
violations, and to determine whether the violations are mentioned in the
peer-reviewed literature.
Design and Setting: Cross-sectional analysis of publicly available documents,
dated from January 1, 1998, to September 30, 2013, describing FDA inspections of 
clinical trial sites in which significant evidence of objectionable conditions or
practices was found.
Main Outcomes and Measures: For each inspection document that could be linked to 
a specific published clinical trial, the main measure was a yes/no determination 
of whether there was mention in the peer-reviewed literature of problems the FDA 
had identified.
Results: Fifty-seven published clinical trials were identified for which an FDA
inspection of a trial site had found significant evidence of 1 or more of the
following problems: falsification or submission of false information, 22 trials
(39%); problems with adverse events reporting, 14 trials (25%); protocol
violations, 42 trials (74%); inadequate or inaccurate recordkeeping, 35 trials
(61%); failure to protect the safety of patients and/or issues with oversight or 
informed consent, 30 trials (53%); and violations not otherwise categorized, 20
trials (35%). Only 3 of the 78 publications (4%) that resulted from trials in
which the FDA found significant violations mentioned the objectionable conditions
or practices found during the inspection. No corrections, retractions,
expressions of concern, or other comments acknowledging the key issues identified
by the inspection were subsequently published.
Conclusions and Relevance: When the FDA finds significant departures from good
clinical practice, those findings are seldom reflected in the peer-reviewed
literature, even when there is evidence of data fabrication or other forms of
research misconduct.

PMID: 25664866  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


115. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2015 Feb 9. [Epub ahead of print]

A review of methods for the calculation of solution free energies and the
modelling of systems in solution.

Skyner RE(1), McDonagh JL, Groom CR, van Mourik T, Mitchell JB.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, University of St Andrews, Purdie Building, North Haugh,
St Andrews, Fife KY16 9ST, UK. jbom@st-andrews.ac.uk.

Over the past decade, pharmaceutical companies have seen a decline in the number 
of drug candidates successfully passing through clinical trials, though billions 
are still spent on drug development. Poor aqueous solubility leads to low
bio-availability, reducing pharmaceutical effectiveness. The human cost of
inefficient drug candidate testing is of great medical concern, with fewer drugs 
making it to the production line, slowing the development of new treatments. In
biochemistry and biophysics, water mediated reactions and interactions within
active sites and protein pockets are an active area of research, in which methods
for modelling solvated systems are continually pushed to their limits. Here, we
discuss a multitude of methods aimed towards solvent modelling and solubility
prediction, aiming to inform the reader of the options available, and outlining
the various advantages and disadvantages of each approach.

PMID: 25660403  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


116. Breast Cancer. 2015 Feb 8. [Epub ahead of print]

Histological examination of sentinel lymph nodes: significance of
macrometastasis, micrometastasis, and isolated tumor cells.

Tsuda H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Pathology, National Defense Medical College, 3-2 Namiki,
Tokorozawa, Saitama, 359-8513, Japan, hstsuda@gmail.com.

Sentinel lymph node biopsy has been started in 1990 s and has become one of the
standard diagnostic procedures used to treat patients with early breast cancer in
this century. In Japan, for the microscopic diagnosis of metastasis to sentinel
lymph nodes, intraoperative frozen section diagnosis is widely used in
combination with subsequent permanent section diagnosis of the residual
specimens. Metastatic foci to sentinel lymph nodes have been classified into
macrometastasis, micrometastasis, and isolated tumor cells in 2002, and the
definition of isolated tumor cells was modified in 2010. Clinical significance of
occult sentinel lymph node metastases, being mostly composed of micrometastasis
and isolated tumor cells, has been clarified in terms of predictive factors for
non-sentinel lymph node metastasis and patient prognosis by large-scale
retrospective studies and prospective randomized clinical trials. In the present 
review, clinical implications of micrometastases and isolated tumor cells in
sentinel lymph nodes and the methods for pathological examination of SLN
metastases employed in these studies were overviewed.

PMID: 25663030  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


117. J Pharm Pract. 2015 Feb 8. pii: 0897190014568383. [Epub ahead of print]

Developments in Oral Antiplatelet Agents for the Treatment of Acute Coronary
Syndromes: Clopidogrel, Prasugrel, and Ticagrelor.

Roffman DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacy Practice and Science Department, Baltimore, MD, USA
droffman@rx.umaryland.edu.

A review of the literature was conducted for clinical trials evaluating the
antiplatelet P2Y12 receptor antagonists, clopidogrel, prasugrel, and ticagrelor, 
as well as the guidelines for the management of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or 
myocardial infarction. Clinical guidelines recommend that patients with ACS be
treated with dual oral antiplatelet therapy of aspirin plus clopidogrel,
prasugrel, or ticagrelor. The selection of an appropriate antiplatelet agent
depends on the treatment approach and a patient's bleeding risk and clinical
history. With respect to antiplatelet activity, prasugrel and ticagrelor
demonstrate greater potency and less interpatient variability than clopidogrel.
In phase III clinical trials, prasugrel and ticagrelor reduced the incidence of
ischemic events in patients with ACS compared with clopidogrel. Ticagrelor and
clopidogrel were associated with a similar risk of major bleeding, whereas
patients receiving prasugrel had an increased risk of major bleeding versus those
receiving clopidogrel. Pharmacists can provide guidance on the appropriate use of
antiplatelet agents as well as the use of concomitant medications, while being
vigilant for any potential drug interactions.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25660584  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


118. J Pharm Pract. 2015 Feb 8. pii: 0897190014568382. [Epub ahead of print]

Key Articles and Guidelines in the Management of Hypertension: 2015 Update.

Ripley TL(1), Brenner M(2), Finks S(3), Hough A(4), McConnell KJ(5), Parker M(6),
Dobesh PP(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Clinical and Administrative Sciences, University of
Oklahoma College of Pharmacy, Oklahoma City, OK, USA toni-ripley@ouhsc.edu. (2)VA
Ann Arbor Healthcare System, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (3)College of Pharmacy,
University of Tennessee, Memphis, TN, USA. (4)West Palm Beach Veterans' Affairs
Medical Center, West Palm Beach, FL, USA. (5)Department of Pharmacy, Kaiser
Permanente Colorado, University of Colorado Skaggs School of Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Denver, CO, USA. (6)Durham Veterans' Affairs Medical
Center, Durham, NC, USA. (7)College of Pharmacy, University of Nebraska Medical
Center, Omaha, NE, USA.

Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Evidence for
optimal pharmacotherapy continues to accumulate at a very rapid pace; maintaining
an up-to-date library of key articles for hypertension management can be
challenging for busy clinicians. Further, there has been controversy surrounding 
the hypertension guidelines that were released in late 2013 and early 2014. The
lack of congruence and simplicity in the current hypertension recommendations
could result in delays with application of evidence to clinical practice. In
order to facilitate clinicians' efficient access to high-impact clinical trials
evaluating the management of hypertension, this compilation of annotated
bibliographies was created to serve as a resource for any health care
professional participating in the management of adult patients with hypertension.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25660583  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


119. Musculoskelet Surg. 2015 Feb 8. [Epub ahead of print]

Preservation of hamstring tibial insertion in anterior cruciate ligament
reconstruction: a review of the current literature.

Ruffilli A(1), Traina F, Evangelisti G, Borghi R, Perna F, Faldini C.

Author information: 
(1)General Orthopaedic Surgery, Rizzoli-Sicilia Department, Rizzoli Orthopaedic
Institute, Bagheria, PA, Italy, aruffilli@tiscali.it.

Hamstring graft (HG) used in anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction
undergoes a biological modification process called "ligamentization" in the early
postoperative period that proceeds through three different phases: an early
graft-healing phase with central graft necrosis, a phase of proliferation, and
finally, a ligamentization phase toward the properties of the intact ACL. The
fastening of this process could result in more aggressive rehabilitation
protocols as well as faster sport resumption. A recent literature supports the
preservation of HG tibial attachment in order to enhance "ligamentization"
process. Aim of this literature review is to describe all the techniques
described that spare HG tibial insertion and the obtained results in order to
evaluate evidence that would substantiate the maintenance of HG tibial insertion 
in ACL reconstruction. A search was performed using the following keywords "ACL
reconstruction" in combination with "hamstrings," "hamstrings insertion," "tibial
insertion," "ligamentization," and "over the top"; 18 articles were found to be
relevant. Among these, eight randomized clinical trials (RCTs) were found. The
RCT analyzed presented a high number of biases regarding the analyzed topic, thus
making impossible to draw definitive evidences to validate HG tibial insertion
sparing in ACL reconstruction. Despite the satisfactory results in many clinical 
series and the promising results in anatomic and animal studies, well-designed
prospective clinical trials with large cohort of patients associated with MRI
evaluation are mandatory to assess the beneficial effects of HG attachment
preservation in ACL reconstruction.

PMID: 25663060  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


120. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2015 Feb 8. doi: 10.1002/pbc.25436. [Epub ahead of print]

Choroid plexus carcinoma in children: The Head Start experience.

Zaky W(1), Dhall G, Khatua S, Brown RJ, Ginn KF, Gardner SL, Yildiz VO,
Yankelevich M, Finlay JL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Department of Pediatrics, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.

BACKGROUND: Choroid plexus carcinoma (CPC) is a rare aggressive intracranial
neoplasm with a predilection for young children and a historically poor outcome. 
Currently, no defined optimal therapeutic strategy exists. The Head Start (HS)
regimens have included irradiation-avoiding strategies in young children with
malignant brain tumors using high dose chemotherapy to improve survival and
minimize neurocognitive sequelae. Pediatr Blood Cancer © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc.
PROCEDURE: Three sequential HS studies have been conducted from 1991 to 2009. HS 
treatment strategy has consisted of maximal surgical resection followed by five
cycles of intensive induction followed by consolidation myeloablative
chemotherapy with autologous hematopoietic stem cell rescue (AuHCR). Irradiation 
was given following recovery from consolidation based on the patient's age and
evidence of residual disease.
RESULTS: Twelve children with CPC (median age of 19.5 months) have been treated
with HS regimens. Ten patients had >95% resection. Three patients had
disseminated disease at diagnosis. Ten patients completed consolidation of whom
five are alive, irradiation and disease free at 29, 43, 61, 66 and 89 months from
diagnosis. Seven patients experienced tumor recurrence/progression at a median
time of 13 months (range 2-43 months). Five patients received irradiation, one
for residual disease and four upon progression or recurrence, of whom one is
alive at 61 months. The 3- and 5-year progression-free survivals are 58% and 38% 
and overall survivals 83% and 62% respectively. Late deaths from disease beyond 5
years were also noted.
CONCLUSION: Head Start strategies may produce long-term remission in young
children with newly diagnosed CPC with avoidance of cranial irradiation. Pediatr 
Blood Cancer © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25662896  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


121. Recent Pat CNS Drug Discov. 2015 Feb 8. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetics and Bioinformatics Studies of Antidepressant Drug Therapeutic Efficacies
and Toxicities, Current Overviews.

Da-Yong LU(1), Ting-Ren LU, Jin-Yu C, Zhu PP.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, PR China.
ludayong@sh163.net.

Antidepressants can relief human depression and reduce human depressive symptoms.
Nevertheless, some undesired clinical events, such as suicide have been emerging.
As for 2004, the US and European regulatory agencies began implementing
verification programs to assess the influence on suicidal behavior from the use
of antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). With 
the increasing number of reported cases, several newly developed antidepressants 
were faced with withdrawal from the markets. Despite unclear cause of suicide,
researches focusing on revealing the relationship between efficacy and toxicities
of antidepressants have been initiated in China and US. To deal with these
undesired clinical consequences, new initiatives and revolutionary ideas have
been proposed and verified. Hopefully, therapeutic efficacies and outcomes by
different types of antidepressant treatments can be improved for clinical trials 
in future.

PMID: 25666180  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


122. World J Urol. 2015 Feb 8. [Epub ahead of print]

Risk stratification for locoregional recurrence after radical cystectomy for
urothelial carcinoma of the bladder.

Novotny V(1), Froehner M, May M, Protzel C, Hergenröther K, Rink M, Chun FK,
Fisch M, Roghmann F, Palisaar RJ, Noldus J, Gierth M, Fritsche HM, Burger M,
Sikic D, Keck B, Wullich B, Nuhn P, Buchner A, Stief CG, Vallo S, Bartsch G,
Haferkamp A, Bastian PJ, Hakenberg OW, Propping S, Aziz A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital "Carl Gustav Carus", Dresden,
Germany.

PURPOSE: To externally validate the Christodouleas risk model incorporating
pathological tumor stage, lymph node (LN) count and soft tissue surgical margin
(STSM) and stratifying patients who develop locoregional recurrence (LR) after
radical cystectomy (RC) for urothelial carcinoma of the bladder (UCB). In
addition, we aimed to generate a new model including established
clinicopathological features that were absent in the Christodouleas risk model.
METHODS: Prospectively assessed multicenter data from 565 patients undergoing RC 
for UCB in 2011 qualified for final analysis. For the purpose of external
validation, risk group stratification according to Christodouleas was performed. 
Competing-risk models were calculated to compare the cumulative incidences of LR 
after RC.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up of 25 months (interquartile range 19-29), the
LR-rate was 11.5 %. The Christodouleas model showed a predictive accuracy of
83.2 % in our cohort. In multivariable competing-risk analysis, tumor stage ≥pT3 
(HR 4.32, p < 0.001), positive STSM (HR 2.93, p = 0.005), lymphovascular invasion
(HR 3.41, p < 0.001), the number of removed LNs <10 (HR 2.62, p < 0.001) and the 
administration of adjuvant chemotherapy (HR 0.40, p = 0.008) independently
predicted the LR-rate. The resulting risk groups revealed significant differences
in LR-rates after 24 months with 4.8 % for low-risk patients, 14.7 % for
intermediate-risk patients and 38.9 % for high-risk patients (p < 0.001 for all),
with a predictive accuracy of 85.6 %, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The Christodouleas risk model has been successfully externally
validated in the present prospective series. However, this analysis finds that
overall model performance may be improved by incorporating lymphovascular
invasion. After external validation of the newly proposed risk model, it may be
used to identify patients who benefit from an adjuvant therapy and suit for
inclusion in clinical trials.

PMID: 25663359  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


123. Ann Plast Surg. 2015 Feb 7. [Epub ahead of print]

Free Flap Monitoring Using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy: A Systemic Review.

Chen Y(1), Shen Z, Shao Z, Yu P, Wu J.

Author information: 
(1)From the *Department of Breast Surgery, Shanghai Cancer Center, and Department
of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China; and
†Department of Plastic Surgery, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX.

BACKGROUND: Although free flaps have become a reliable technique, vascular
occlusion remains a significant risk. Flap survival is closely linked to the time
interval between the onset and surgical repair of a microvascular problem. The
newly emerged near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) shows the characteristics of
being noninvasive, continuous, easy to use, objective, and immediately
reflective, possibly making it an ideal candidate for postoperative flap
monitoring.
METHODS: A systemic review was conducted to determine the clinical value of NIRS 
in the early detection of vascular crisis associated with a free flap. A
literature search was conducted using PubMed (MEDLINE), the Cochrane Library, and
Web of Science from database inception through October 2013. Studies were
selected strictly according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria by 2 independent 
reviews.
RESULTS: Eight studies were finally included in this review. A total of 710 free 
flap procedures were performed in 629 patients using NIRS for monitoring. At the 
same time, 433 free flaps performed in 430 patients without the use of NIRS were 
included as the control group. No significant differences in the rates of
vascular crisis (P = 0.917) and re-exploration (P = 0.187). However, there were
significant differences in the salvage rates (P < 0.001) and flap failure rates
(P = 0.003). For the free flaps monitored by NIRS that were not associated with
vascular crisis, no alarms were raised by NIRS, giving 100% sensitivity and
specificity.
CONCLUSION: Near-infrared spectroscopy seems to be a highly suitable candidate
for postoperative flap monitoring. Larger-scale, randomized, multicentric
clinical trials are needed in the future.

PMID: 25664408  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


124. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2015 Feb 7. pii: S0936-6555(15)00029-1. doi:
10.1016/j.clon.2015.01.005. [Epub ahead of print]

The Development of Practice Standards for Radiation Oncology in Australia: A
Tripartite Approach.

Kron T(1), Dwyer M(2), Smith L(3), MacDonald A(4), Pawsey M(5), Raik E(6), Arnold
A(7), Hill B(8), Duchesne GM(9).

Author information: 
(1)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Departments of Radiation Oncology and Physical 
Sciences, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Sir Peter MacCallum Department of
Oncology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Electronic
address: Tomas.Kron@petermac.org. (2)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Departments
of Radiation Oncology and Physical Sciences, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)William Buckland Radiotherapy Centre, Melbourne, Australia. (4)Department of
Health, Canberra, Australia. (5)Australian Institute of Health Innovation,
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. (6)National Pathology
Accreditation Advisory Council, Australia. (7)Illawarra Shoalhaven Local Health
District, Australia. (8)Genesis CancerCare Queensland, Southport, Queensland,
Australia. (9)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Departments of Radiation Oncology
and Physical Sciences, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Sir Peter MacCallum
Department of Oncology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

In many areas of health care, practice standards have become an accepted method
for professions to assess and improve the quality of care delivery. The aim of
this work is to present the development of practice standards for radiation
oncology in Australia, highlighting critical points and lessons learned.
Following a review of radiotherapy services in Australia, a multidisciplinary
group with support from the Australian Government developed practice standards
for radiation oncology in Australia. The standards were produced in a multistep
process including a nationwide survey of radiotherapy centres and piloting of the
standards in a representative subset of all Australian radiotherapy centres. The 
standards are grouped into three sections: Facility management (covering
staffing, data management, equipment and processes); Treatment planning and
delivery (providing more detailed guidance on prescription, planning and
delivery); Safety and quality management (including radiation safety, incident
monitoring and clinical trials participation). Each of the 16 standards contains 
specific criteria, a commentary and suggestions for the evidence required to
demonstrate compliance. The development of the standards was challenging and time
consuming, but the collaborative efforts of the professions resulted in standards
applicable throughout Australia and possibly further afield.

Copyright © 2015 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25669589  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


125. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2015 Feb 7:1-12. [Epub ahead of print]

Tissue-engineered models of human tumors for cancer research.

Villasante A(1), Vunjak-Novakovic G.

Author information: 
(1)Columbia University, Department of Biomedical Engineering , New York, NY 10032
, USA.

Introduction: Drug toxicity often goes undetected until clinical trials, which
are the most costly and dangerous phase of drug development. Both the cultures of
human cells and animal studies have limitations that cannot be overcome by
incremental improvements in drug-testing protocols. A new generation of
bioengineered tumors is now emerging in response to these limitations, with
potential to transform drug screening by providing predictive models of tumors
within their tissue context, for studies of drug safety and efficacy. An area
that could greatly benefit from these models is cancer research. Areas covered:
In this review, the authors first describe the engineered tumor systems, using
Ewing's sarcoma as an example of human tumor that cannot be predictably studied
in cell culture and animal models. Then, they discuss the importance of the
tissue context for cancer progression and outline the biomimetic principles for
engineering human tumors. Finally, they discuss the utility of bioengineered
tumor models for cancer research and address the challenges in modeling human
tumors for use in drug discovery and testing. Expert opinion: While tissue models
are just emerging as a new tool for cancer drug discovery, they are already
demonstrating potential for recapitulating, in vitro, the native behavior of
human tumors. Still, numerous challenges need to be addressed before we can have 
platforms with a predictive power appropriate for the pharmaceutical industry.
Some of the key needs include the incorporation of the vascular compartment,
immune system components, and mechanical signals that regulate tumor development 
and function.

PMID: 25662589  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


126. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2015 Feb 7:1-12. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluating the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of everolimus for treating
breast cancer.

Gombos A(1), Barthélémy P, Awada A.

Author information: 
(1)Université Libre de Bruxelles, Institut Jules Rue Héger-Bordet 1 , Medical
Oncology Clinic , Rue Héger 1, Brussels 1000 , Belgium andrea.gombos@bordet.be.

Introduction: The aberrant activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase-Akt-mTOR
signaling pathway is a common mechanism of resistance to endocrine therapy and
human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-targeted treatments in breast
cancer. Data from large clinical trials have shown that the combination of
everolimus , an orally bioavailable mTOR inhibitor with exemestane improves
outcome of metastatic breast cancer resistant to non-steroidal aromatase
inhibitors. On the other hand, the addition of everolimus to trastuzumab in order
to overcome resistance did not show meaningful clinical benefit in recent
reported Phase III clinical trials. Everolimus has a favorable pharmacokinetic
(PK) profile in early breast cancer studies. The association of endocrine therapy
and HER2-targeted agents did not influence the main PK parameters of the drugs.
Areas covered: This review article focuses on the biological rationale of using
everolimus in breast cancer and on latest advances in the field of
everolimus-based combinations with an emphasis on the PK and pharmacodynamic
parameters of the drug throughout different studies. Expert opinion: Better
identification of patients who sustain benefit or who are resistant to
everolimus-based combinations in the treatment of advanced breast cancer remains 
an unmet need. New combination strategies based on the understanding of
resistance mechanisms and intracellular feedback loops should be studied further 
in the future.

PMID: 25659402  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


127. Front Med. 2015 Feb 7. [Epub ahead of print]

Optimized human factor IX expression cassettes for hepatic-directed gene therapy 
of hemophilia B.

Zhang R(1), Wang Q, Zhang L, Chen S.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Medical Genomics, Shanghai Institute of Hematology,
Ruijin Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine,
Shanghai, 200025, China.

Gene therapy provides a potential cure for hemophilia B, and significant progress
has been achieved in liver-directed gene transfer mediated by adeno-associated
viral vectors. Recent clinical trials involving the use of a self-complementary
adeno-associated virus serotype 8-human codon-optimized factor IX (AAV8-hFIXco)
vector demonstrated encouraging efficacy with hFIX expression stabilized at 1% to
6% of normal level in patients, but safety concerns related to high vector doses 
are still present. Thus, further improvement of AAV vectors and hFIX expression
cassette may positively contribute to the ultimate success of hemophilia B gene
therapy. In this study, to obtain a higher expression level of hFIX that
potentiates the coagulant capacity of recipients, human FIX expression vector was
optimized by upgrading the codon adaption index and adjusting the GC content,
inserting a Kozak sequence (GCCACC), and introducing a gain-of-function mutation,
R338L (FIX Padua). The efficiency of the published and the presently constructed 
cassettes was compared through in vivo screening. In addition, the regulatory
elements that control the FIX gene expression in these cassettes were screened
for liver-specific effectiveness. Among all the constructed cassettes,
scAAV-Pre-hFIXco-SIH-R338L, which was the construct under the control of the
prothrombin enhancer and prealbumin promoter, resulted in the highest level of
coagulant activity, and the expression levels of two constructed cassettes
(scAAV-Chi-hFIXco-SIH-R338L and scAAV-Pre-hFIXco-SIH-R338L) were also higher than
that of the published cassette (scAAV-LP1-hFIXco-SJ). In summary, our strategies 
led to a substantial increase in hFIX expression at the protein level or a
remarkably elevated coagulant activity. Thus, these reconstructs of hFIX with AAV
vector may potentially contribute to the creation of an efficacious gene therapy 
of hemophilia B.

PMID: 25663062  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


128. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2015 Feb 7. pii: S1357-2725(15)00025-4. doi:
10.1016/j.biocel.2015.01.015. [Epub ahead of print]

The therapeutic effects of 4-phenylbutyric acid in maintaining proteostasis.

Kolb PS(1), Ayaub EA(2), Zhou W(1), Yum V(3), Dickhout JG(3), Ask K(4).

Author information: 
(1)McMaster University, Department of Medicine, Canada; Firestone Institute for
Respiratory Health, The Research Institute of St Joe's Hamilton, Canada.
(2)McMaster University, Department of Medicine, Canada; Firestone Institute for
Respiratory Health, The Research Institute of St Joe's Hamilton, Canada; McMaster
Immunology Research Center, Canada. (3)McMaster University, Department of
Medicine, Canada; Hamilton Centre for Kidney Research, Canada. (4)McMaster
University, Department of Medicine, Canada; Firestone Institute for Respiratory
Health, The Research Institute of St Joe's Hamilton, Canada; McMaster Immunology 
Research Center, Canada. Electronic address: askkj@mcmaster.ca.

Recently, there has been an increasing amount of literature published on the
effects of 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA) in various biological systems. 4-PBA is
currently used clinically to treat urea cycle disorders under the trade name
Buphenyl. Recent studies however have explored 4-PBA in the context of a low
weight molecular weight chemical chaperone. Its properties as a chemical
chaperone prevent misfolded protein aggregation and alleviate endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) stress. As the ER is responsible for folding proteins targeted for
use in membranes or secreted out of the cell, failure of maintaining adequate ER 
homeostasis may lead to protein misfolding and subsequent cell and organ
pathology. Accumulation of misfolded proteins within the ER activates the
unfolded protein response (UPR), a molecular repair response. The activation of
the UPR aims to restore ER and cellular proteostasis by regulating the rate of
synthesis of newly formed proteins as well as initiating molecular programs aimed
to help fold or degrade misfolded proteins. If proteostasis is not restored, the 
UPR may initiate pro-apoptotic pathways. It is suggested that 4-PBA may help fold
proteins in the ER, attenuating the activation of the UPR, and thus potentially
alleviating various pathologies. This review discusses the biomedical research
exploring the potential therapeutic effects of 4-PBA in various in vitro and in
vivo model systems and clinical trials, while also commenting on the possible
mechanisms of action.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25660369  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


129. J Appl Toxicol. 2015 Feb 7. doi: 10.1002/jat.3108. [Epub ahead of print]

Safety of Chinese herbal medicines during pregnancy.

Liang B(1), Li L, Tang LY, Wu Q, Wu XK, Wang CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong.

Miscarriage and infertility have long been public concerns due to the mental and 
physical suffering they bring to potential parents. There is a strong need for
effective and affordable treatments. Chinese herbal medicines (CHMs) have been
shown to be effective for preventing miscarriage and treating infertility;
however, due to the limited knowledge of their pharmacological mechanisms and
unknown potential toxicity, their use has been restricted. This paper reviews 24 
clinical trials of CHMs to prevent miscarriage and treat infertility. Most of
these studies did not meet the requirements of randomized controlled trials. Even
when using quality assessments based on the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale to assess the 
quality of non-randomized studies, most studies did not meet the requirements.
The reviewed papers were evaluated for maternal and embryonic adverse effects,
including those in animal experiments. Slight maternal effects were noted, with
some reports of severe toxic effects of CHMs for preventing miscarriage and
severe adverse maternal effects of CHMs used for infertility. Owing to the poor
quality of the randomized controlled clinical trials and the limited number of
studies, it is not possible to draw a conclusion. From animal studies, for all
three gestational periods, growth delay and congenital anomalies were the most
commonly recorded adverse effects. However, baseline toxicological data and
detailed mechanisms are still lacking. To gain a better understanding of the
potential toxic effects of CHMs, additional high-quality randomized controlled
trials should be conducted, and high-throughput in vitro screening method for
baseline data should be considered. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25663446  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


130. Microbiol Immunol. 2015 Feb 7. doi: 10.1111/1348-0421.12242. [Epub ahead of
print]

Successful selection of an infection-protective anti-Staphylococcus aureus
monoclonal antibody and its protective activity in murine infection models.

Ohsawa H(1), Baba T, Enami J, Hiramatsu K.

Author information: 
(1)Central Research Laboratory, Zenyaku Kogyo Co., Ltd., 2-33-7, Ohizumi-machi,
Nerima-ku, Tokyo, 178-0062, Japan; Department of Bacteriology, Juntendo
University, 2-1-1 Hongo, Bunnkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8421, Japan.

Recent clinical trials to develop anti-methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) therapeutic antibodies have met unsuccessful sequels. To obtain
more effective antibodies against MRSA infection, we generated a panel of
monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against S. aureus cell wall, then screened them for 
the most protective mAb in mouse infection models. We immunized mice with the
alkali-processed, deacetylated cell wall of S. aureus, and obtained 22 anti-S.
aureus IgG mAbs. One of the mAbs, ZBIA5H, exhibited life-saving effects in mouse 
models of sepsis caused by community-acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA) strain MW2 and
vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA) strain VRS1. It also had a curative effect 
in a MW2-caused pneumonia model. Curiously, the target of ZBIA5H was considered
to be a conformational epitope of either the 1,4-β-linkage between
N-acetylmuramic acid and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine or the peptidoglycan per se.
Reactivity of ZBIA5H to S. aureus whole cells or purified peptidoglycan was weak 
as compared to most of the other mAbs generated in this study. However, the
latter mAbs did not have protective activities against S. aureus as did ZBIA5H
did. The data indicated that the epitopes that trigger production of high-yield
and/or high-affinity antibodies may not be the suitable epitopes for the
development of anti-infective antibodies. ZBIA5H or its humanized form may find a
future clinical application, and its target epitope may be used for the
production of vaccines against S. aureus infection.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659598  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


131. Nutr Hosp. 2015 Feb 7;31 Suppl 1:64-7. doi: 10.3305/nh.2015.31.sup1.8709.

[Probiotics for the treating acute diarrhea and preventing antibiotic-associated 
diarrhea in children].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Pérez C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Pediatría Hospital de Cabueñes. Gijón. España..
perezmendez.carlos@gmail.com.

Probiotics are helpful in the treatment of acute diarrhea. Several systematic
reviews show that the use of probiotics shortens the duration of diarrhea in one 
day and reduces by 59% the risk of diarrhea lasting longer than 4 days. Hospital 
stay is 24 hours shorter in children treated with probiotics. The benefitial
effect of probiotics is species-specific; Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG and
Saccharomyces boulardii are the two species with proven efficacy in the treatment
of acute diarrhea. The use of probiotics reduces by 50% the risk of
antibiotic-associated diarrhea. No significant side effects were found in the
clinical trials but rare cases of invasive infections have been reported in
immunosuppressed children or those with indwelling central venous catheters.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25659056  [PubMed - in process]


132. Nutr Hosp. 2015 Feb 7;31 Suppl 1:33-47. doi: 10.3305/nh.2015.31.sup1.8705.

[Probiotics: from the lab to the consumer].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Rodríguez JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Nutrición, Bromatología y Tecnología de los Alimentos,
Universidad Complutense de Madrid. España.. jmrodrig@vet.ucm.es.

INTRODUCTION: In the last years, the field of probiotics has grown notably.
However, out of the thousands of strains isolated each year in the labs around
the world, very few enter in a phase of industrial development and even a lower
number go to the market.
OBJECTIVE: In this article, the main aspects that have to be taken into account
in the, usually, long and winding road that a strain must follow from isolation
to the market are reviewed Results and conclusions: A probiotic microorganism has
to be correctly identified at the species and strain levels. The genome sequence 
is the gold identification standard and provides valuable information on the
safety, functionality and technological properties of a strain. The cases in
which a link between a probiotic and an adverse effect has been established are
scarce and have involved people with underlying pathologies. There is a wide
variety of in vitro, ex vivo and animal model assays for the screening of
probiotics, which provide useful information throughout the selection process;
however, correctly designed clinical trials are the only way to obtain direct
results on the safety and efficacy of a probiotic to the target population.
Probiotic companies have the need to obtain a very high bacterial biomass in an
economically viable manner while preserving the concentration of live bacteria
required for exerting the expected beneficial effect until the end of the
probiotic's shelf life. Finally, commercial aspects play a key role in the
decision of starting an industrial development and, eventually, to place a
probiotic in the market.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25659052  [PubMed - in process]


133. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Feb 7. [Epub ahead of print]

Systematic Review of Humanistic and Economic Burden of Symptomatic Chronic
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.

Srivastava K(1), Thakur D, Sharma S, Punekar YS.

Author information: 
(1)HERON Health PVT (Now Parexel), 3rd Floor, DLF Tower E, Rajiv Gandhi IT Park, 
Chandigarh, India.

BACKGROUND: An understanding of the humanistic and economic burden of individuals
with symptomatic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is required to
inform payers and healthcare professionals about the disease burden.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this systematic review was to identify and present
humanistic [health-related quality of life (HRQoL)] and economic burdens of
symptomatic COPD.
METHODS: A comprehensive search of online databases (reimbursement or claims
databases/other databases), abstracts from conference proceedings, published
literature, clinical trials, medical records, health ministries, financial
reports, registries, and other sources was conducted. Adult patients of any race 
or gender with symptomatic COPD were included. Humanistic and economic burdens
included studies evaluating HRQoL and cost and resource use, respectively,
associated with symptomatic COPD.
RESULTS: Thirty-two studies reporting humanistic burden and 74 economic studies
were identified. Symptomatic COPD led to impairment in the health state of
patients, as assessed by HRQoL instruments. It was also associated with high
economic burden across all countries. The overall, direct, and indirect costs per
patient increased with an increase in symptoms, dyspnoea severity, and duration
of disease. Across countries, the annual societal costs associated with
symptomatic COPD were higher among patients with comorbidities.
CONCLUSIONS: Symptomatic COPD is associated with a substantial economic burden.
The HRQoL of patients with symptomatic COPD is, in general, low and influenced by
dyspnoea.

PMID: 25663178  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


134. Am J Addict. 2015 Feb 6. doi: 10.1111/ajad.12193. [Epub ahead of print]

Toward personalized smoking-cessation treatment: Using a predictive modeling
approach to guide decisions regarding stimulant medication treatment of
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in smokers.

Luo SX(1), Covey LS, Hu MC, Levin FR, Nunes EV, Winhusen TM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Division of Substance Abuse, New York State
Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Osmotic-release oral system methylphenidate (OROS-MPH)
did not show overall benefit as an adjunct smoking cessation treatment for adult 
smokers with ADHD in a randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical
trial. A secondary analysis revealed a significant interaction between ADHD
symptom severity and treatment-response to OROS-MPH, but did not account for
other baseline covariates or estimate the magnitude of improvement in outcome if 
treatment were optimized. This present study addressed the gaps in how this
relationship should inform clinical practice.
METHODS: Using data from the Adult Smokers with ADHD Trial (N = 255, six sites in
five US States), we build predictive models to calculate the probability of
achieving prolonged abstinence, verified by self-report, and expired carbon
monoxide measurement. We evaluate the potential improvement in achieving
prolonged abstinence with and without stratification on baseline ADHD severity.
RESULTS: Predictive modeling demonstrates that the interaction between baseline
ADHD severity and treatment group is not affected by adjusting for other baseline
covariates. A clinical trial simulation shows that giving OROS-MPH to patients
with baseline Adult ADHD Symptom Rating Scale (ADHD-RS) >35 and placebo to those 
with ADHD-RS ≤35 would significantly improve the prolonged abstinence rate
(52 ± 8% vs. 42 ± 5%, p < .001).
CONCLUSIONS AND SCIENTIFIC SIGNIFICANCE: In smokers with ADHD, utilization of a
simple decision rule that stratifies patients based on baseline ADHD severity can
enhance overall achievement of prolonged smoking abstinence. Similar analysis
methods should be considered for future clinical trials for other substance use
disorders. (Am J Addict 2015;XX:XX-XX).

© American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry.

PMID: 25659348  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


135. BMJ Open. 2015 Feb 6;5(2):e006448. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-006448.

TElehealth in CHronic disease: mixed-methods study to develop the TECH conceptual
model for intervention design and evaluation.

Salisbury C(1), Thomas C(1), O'Cathain A(2), Rogers A(3), Pope C(3), Yardley
L(4), Hollinghurst S(1), Fahey T(5), Lewis G(6), Large S(7), Edwards L(1),
Rowsell A(4), Segar J(8), Brownsell S(2), Montgomery AA(9).

Author information: 
(1)University of Bristol, Centre for Academic Primary Care, School of Social and 
Community Medicine, Bristol, UK. (2)University of Sheffield, Medical Care
Research Unit, School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), Sheffield, UK.
(3)University of Southampton, School of Health Sciences, Southampton, UK.
(4)University of Southampton, Centre for Applications of Health Psychology,
Southampton, UK. (5)Department of General Practice, HRB Centre for Primary Care
Research, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Medical School, Dublin 2,
Ireland. (6)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK. (7)NHS
Direct, Hampshire, UK. (8)The University of Manchester, Centre for Primary Care, 
Institute of Population Health, Manchester, UK. (9)Nottingham Clinical Trials
Unit, University of Nottingham, Nottingham Health Science Partners, Nottingham,
UK.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a conceptual model for effective use of telehealth in the
management of chronic health conditions, and to use this to develop and evaluate 
an intervention for people with two exemplar conditions: raised cardiovascular
disease risk and depression.
DESIGN: The model was based on several strands of evidence: a metareview and
realist synthesis of quantitative and qualitative evidence on telehealth for
chronic conditions; a qualitative study of patients' and health professionals'
experience of telehealth; a quantitative survey of patients' interest in using
telehealth; and review of existing models of chronic condition management and
evidence-based treatment guidelines. Based on these evidence strands, a model was
developed and then refined at a stakeholder workshop. Then a telehealth
intervention ('Healthlines') was designed by incorporating strategies to address 
each of the model components. The model also provided a framework for evaluation 
of this intervention within parallel randomised controlled trials in the two
exemplar conditions, and the accompanying process evaluations and economic
evaluations.
SETTING: Primary care.
RESULTS: The TElehealth in CHronic Disease (TECH) model proposes that attention
to four components will offer interventions the best chance of success: (1)
engagement of patients and health professionals, (2) effective chronic disease
management (including subcomponents of self-management, optimisation of
treatment, care coordination), (3) partnership between providers and (4) patient,
social and health system context. Key intended outcomes are improved health,
access to care, patient experience and cost-effective care.
CONCLUSIONS: A conceptual model has been developed based on multiple sources of
evidence which articulates how telehealth may best provide benefits for patients 
with chronic health conditions. It can be used to structure the design and
evaluation of telehealth programmes which aim to be acceptable to patients and
providers, and cost-effective.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25659890  [PubMed - in process]


136. Br Med Bull. 2015 Feb 6. pii: ldu041. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetics in myeloma: genetic technologies and their application to screening
approaches in myeloma.

Talley PJ(1), Chantry AD(2), Buckle CH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sheffield Diagnostic Genetics Service, Sheffield Children's NHS Foundation
Trust, Western Bank, Sheffield S10 2TH, UK polly.talley@sch.nhs.uk. (2)Sheffield 
Myeloma Research Team (SMaRT), Department of Oncology, University of Sheffield
Medical School, Beech Hill Road, Sheffield S10 2RX, UK.

BACKGROUND: Despite advances in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM), it
remains an incurable malignant disease. Myeloma genetics is intrinsically
complex, but it offers an opportunity to categorize the disease and apply a
personalized medicine approach.
AREAS OF AGREEMENT: Research into the genetics of myeloma is moving at a fast
pace and is highlighting areas and patient cohorts likely to benefit from
specific treatment. Targeting residual disease is likely to be crucial to
improved clinical outcome.
AREAS OF CONTROVERSY: Patients in clinical trials are more likely to receive
genetic diagnosis than non-trial patients, for whom access is ad hoc and
dependent upon regional commissioning arrangements.
AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING RESEARCH: Relating genetics to potential treatment
pathways will become crucial for improved myeloma outcomes. Universal access to
standardized genetic testing will facilitate modern personalized treatments.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25662536  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


137. Clin Ther. 2015 Feb 6. pii: S0149-2918(15)00010-7. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2014.12.020. [Epub ahead of print]

Therapeutic Development in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Bucchia M(1), Ramirez A(1), Parente V(1), Simone C(1), Nizzardo M(1), Magri F(1),
Dametti S(1), Corti S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dino Ferrari Centre, Department of Neurological Sciences, University of Milan,
IRCCS Foundation Ca' Granda Maggiore Hospital Policlinico, Milan, Italy. (2)Dino 
Ferrari Centre, Department of Neurological Sciences, University of Milan, IRCCS
Foundation Ca' Granda Maggiore Hospital Policlinico, Milan, Italy. Electronic
address: stefania.corti@unimi.it.

PURPOSE: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most common motor neuron
disease in adults. It is almost invariably lethal within a few years after the
onset of symptoms. No effective treatment is currently available beyond
supportive care and riluzole, a putative glutamate release blocker linked to
modestly prolonged survival. This review provides a general overview of
preclinical and clinical advances during recent years and summarizes the
literature regarding emerging therapeutic approaches, focusing on their molecular
targets.
METHODS: A systematic literature review of PubMed was performed, identifying key 
clinical trials involving molecular therapies for ALS. In addition, the ALS
Therapy Development Institute website was carefully analyzed, and a selection of 
ALS clinical trials registered at ClinicalTrials.gov has been included.
FINDINGS: In the last several years, strategies have been developed to understand
both the genetic and molecular mechanisms of ALS. Several therapeutic targets
have been actively pursued, including kinases, inflammation inhibitors, silencing
of key genes, and modulation or replacement of specific cell populations. The
majority of ongoing clinical trials are investigating the safety profiles and
tolerability of pharmacologic, gene, and cellular therapies, and have begun to
assess their effects on ALS progression.
IMPLICATIONS: Currently, no therapeutic effort seems to be efficient, but recent 
findings in ALS could help accelerate the discovery of an effective treatment for
this disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25666449  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


138. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 6;2:CD009944. [Epub ahead of print]

Diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) for the preoperative
locoregional staging of primary gastric cancer.

Mocellin S(1), Pasquali S.

Author information: 
(1)Meta-Analysis Unit, Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology,
University of Padova, Via Giustiniani 2, Padova, Veneto, Italy, 35128.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is proposed as an accurate diagnostic
device for the locoregional staging of gastric cancer, which is crucial to
developing a correct therapeutic strategy and ultimately to providing patients
with the best chance of cure. However, despite a number of studies addressing
this issue, there is no consensus on the role of EUS in routine clinical
practice.
OBJECTIVES: To provide both a comprehensive overview and a quantitative analysis 
of the published data regarding the ability of EUS to preoperatively define the
locoregional disease spread (i.e., primary tumor depth (T-stage) and regional
lymph node status (N-stage)) in people with primary gastric carcinoma.  SEARCH
METHODS: We performed a systematic search to identify articles that examined the 
diagnostic accuracy of EUS (the index test) in the evaluation of primary gastric 
cancer depth of invasion (T-stage, according to the AJCC/UICC TNM staging system 
categories T1, T2, T3 and T4) and regional lymph node status (N-stage,
disease-free (N0) versus metastatic (N+)) using histopathology as the reference
standard. To this end, we searched the following databases: theCochrane Library
(the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL)), MEDLINE, EMBASE, 
NIHR Prospero Register, MEDION, Aggressive Research Intelligence Facility (ARIF),
ClinicalTrials.gov, Current Controlled Trials MetaRegister, and World Health
Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP), from
1988 to January 2015.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included studies that met the following main inclusion
criteria: 1) a minimum sample size of 10 patients with histologically-proven
primary carcinoma of the stomach (target condition); 2) comparison of EUS (index 
test) with pathology evaluation (reference standard) in terms of primary tumor
(T-stage) and regional lymph nodes (N-stage). We excluded reports with possible
overlap with the selected studies.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: For each study, two review authors extracted a
standard set of data, using a dedicated data extraction form. We assessed data
quality using a standard procedure according to the Quality Assessment of
Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS-2) criteria. We performed diagnostic accuracy
meta-analysis using the hierarchical bivariate method.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified 66 articles (published between 1988 and 2012) that
were eligible according to the inclusion criteria. We collected the data on 7747 
patients with gastric cancer who were staged with EUS. Overall the quality of the
included studies was good: in particular, only five studies presented a high risk
of index test interpretation bias and two studies presented a high risk of
selection bias.For primary tumor (T) stage, results were stratified according to 
the depth of invasion of the gastric wall. The meta-analysis of 50 studies (n =
4397) showed that the summary sensitivity and specificity of EUS in
discriminating T1 to T2 (superficial) versus T3 to T4 (advanced) gastric
carcinomas were 0.86 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.81 to 0.90) and 0.90 (95% CI
0.87 to 0.93) respectively. For the diagnostic capacity of EUS to distinguish T1 
(early gastric cancer, EGC) versus T2 (muscle-infiltrating) tumors, the
meta-analysis of 46 studies (n = 2742) showed that the summary sensitivity and
specificity were 0.85 (95% CI 0.78 to 0.91) and 0.90 (95% CI 0.85 to 0.93)
respectively. When we addressed the capacity of EUS to distinguish between T1a
(mucosal) versus T1b (submucosal) cancers the meta-analysis of 20 studies (n =
3321) showed that the summary sensitivity and specificity were 0.87 (95% CI 0.81 
to 0.92) and 0.75 (95% CI 0.62 to 0.84) respectively. Finally, for the metastatic
involvement of lymph nodes (N-stage), the meta-analysis of 44 studies (n = 3573) 
showed that the summary sensitivity and specificity were 0.83 (95% CI 0.79 to
0.87) and 0.67 (95% CI 0.61 to 0.72), respectively.Overall, as demonstrated also 
by the Bayesian nomograms, which enable readers to calculate post-test
probabilities for any target condition prevalence, the EUS accuracy can be
considered clinically useful to guide physicians in the locoregional staging of
people with gastric cancer. However, it should be noted that between-study
heterogeneity was not negligible: unfortunately, we could not identify any
consistent source of the observed heterogeneity. Therefore, all accuracy measures
reported in the present work and summarizing the available evidence should be
interpreted cautiously. Moreover, we must emphasize that the analysis of positive
and negative likelihood values revealed that EUS diagnostic performance cannot be
considered optimal either for disease confirmation or for exclusion, especially
for the ability of EUS to distinguish T1a (mucosal) versus T1b (submucosal)
cancers and positive versus negative lymph node status.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: By analyzing the data from the largest series ever
considered, we found that the diagnostic accuracy of EUS might be considered
clinically useful to guide physicians in the locoregional staging of people with 
gastric carcinoma. However, the heterogeneity of the results warrants special
caution, as well as further investigation for the identification of factors
influencing the outcome of this diagnostic tool. Moreover, physicians should be
warned that EUS performance is lower in diagnosing superficial tumors (T1a versus
T1b) and lymph node status (positive versus negative). Overall, we observed large
heterogeneity and its source needs to be understood before any definitive
conclusion can be drawn about the use of EUS can be proposed in routine clinical 
settings.

PMID: 25658067  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


139. Dev World Bioeth. 2015 Feb 6. doi: 10.1111/dewb.12079. [Epub ahead of print]

Prioritising Healthcare Workers for Ebola Treatment: Treating Those at Greatest
Risk to Confer Greatest Benefit.

Satalkar P, Elger BE, Shaw DM.

The Ebola epidemic in Western Africa has highlighted issues related to weak
health systems, the politics of drug and vaccine development and the need for
transparent and ethical criteria for use of scarce local and global resources
during public health emergency. In this paper we explore two key themes. First,
we argue that independent of any use of experimental drugs or vaccine
interventions, simultaneous implementation of proven public health principles,
community engagement and culturally sensitive communication are critical as these
measures represent the most cost-effective and fair utilization of available
resources. Second, we attempt to clarify the ethical issues related to use of
scarce experimental drugs or vaccines and explore in detail the most critical
ethical question related to Ebola drug or vaccine distribution in the current
outbreak: who among those infected or at risk should be prioritized to receive
any new experimental drugs or vaccines? We conclude that healthcare workers
should be prioritised for these experimental interventions, for a variety of
reasons.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25655050  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


140. Epilepsy Behav. 2015 Feb 6;44C:104-109. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.12.028. [Epub
ahead of print]

The European patient with Dravet syndrome: Results from a parent-reported survey 
on antiepileptic drug use in the European population with Dravet syndrome.

Aras LM(1), Isla J(2), Mingorance-Le Meur A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dravet Syndrome Foundation Spain, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
luismi.aras@dravetfoundation.eu. (2)Dravet Syndrome Foundation Spain, Madrid,
Spain. Electronic address: julian.isla@dravetfoundation.eu. (3)Dravet Syndrome
Foundation Spain, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
ana.mingorance@dravetfoundation.eu.

Dravet syndrome is a rare form of epilepsy largely refractory to current
antiepileptic medications. The only precedents of randomized placebo-controlled
trials in Dravet syndrome are the two small trials that led to the approval of
stiripentol. With the arrival of new clinical trials for Dravet syndrome, we
sought to determine the characteristics of the patient population with Dravet
syndrome in Europe today, which has possibly evolved subsequent to the approval
of stiripentol and the ability to diagnose milder clinical cases via genetic
testing. From May to June 2014, we conducted an online parent-reported survey to 
collect information about the demographics, disease-specific clinical
characteristics, as well as current and past use of antiepileptic medications by 
European patients with Dravet syndrome. We present data from 274 patients with
Dravet syndrome from 15 European countries. Most patients were between 4 and
8years of age, and 90% had known mutations in SCN1A. Their epilepsy was
characterized by multiple seizure types, although only 45% had more than 4
tonic-clonic seizures per month on average. The most common drug combination was 
valproate, clobazam, and stiripentol, with 42% of the total population currently 
taking stiripentol. Over a third of patients with Dravet syndrome had taken
sodium channel blockers in the past, and most had motor and behavioral
comorbidities. Our study helps define the current typical European patient with
Dravet syndrome. The results from this survey may have important implications for
the design of future clinical trials that investigate new treatments for Dravet
syndrome.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25666511  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


141. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2015 Feb 6. pii: S1462-3889(14)00199-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejon.2014.10.019. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of adding the herb Achillea millefolium on mouthwash on chemotherapy
induced oral mucositis in cancer patients: A double-blind randomized controlled
trial.

Miranzadeh S(1), Adib-Hajbaghery M(2), Soleymanpoor L(1), Ehsani M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Surgical Nursing, Faculty of Nursing and Midwifery,
Kashan University of Medical Sciences, Kashan, Iran. (2)Department of Medical
Surgical Nursing, Faculty of Nursing and Midwifery, Kashan University of Medical 
Sciences, Kashan, Iran. Electronic address: adib1344@yahoo.com. (3)Department of 
Internal Medicine, Shahid Beheshti Medical Center, Kashan University of Medical
Sciences, Kashan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Oral mucositis (OM) is a debilitating side-effect of chemotherapy. It
has different complications, including impairment of drinking, eating and even
talking, sometimes so severe that physician stops the therapy.
OBJECTIVE: Investigating the effect of Achillea millefolium distillate solution
in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced OM.
INTERVENTIONS/METHODS: In this randomized controlled trial, 56 cancer patients
with chemotherapy-induced OM were randomly assigned into control and experimental
groups in similar blocks based on the severity of OM. The experimental group
gargled 15 mL of a mixture of routine solution and distilled A. millefolium 4
times a day for 14 days while the control group gargled 15 mL of routine
solution. The severity of OM was assessed at three times before, 7 and 14 days
after intervention. Data was analyzed using Wilcoxon, Kruskal-Wallis,
Mann-Whitney U, Friedman, Chi-square and Fisher's exact tests.
RESULTS: The mean severity score of OM was 2.39 ± 0.875 in both groups at start
of the study that was changed to 1.07 ± 0.85 and 0.32 ± 0.54 in the intervention 
group in days 7 and 14 (p < 0.001). However, the severity of OM was increased to 
2.75 ± 0.87 and 2.89 ± 0.956 in the control group respectively (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: A. millefolium distillate healed OM much more than the routine
solution. Therefore, it is suggested to be used in patients with
chemotherapy-induced OM. The study was registered in the Iranian Registry of
Clinical Trials, Number: IRCT2013092214729N1.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25667123  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


142. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2015 Feb 6:1-16. [Epub ahead of print]

Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase inhibitors: a patent review.

Desogus A(1), Schenone S, Brullo C, Tintori C, Musumeci F.

Author information: 
(1)Università degli Studi di Genova, Dipartimento di Farmacia , Viale Benedetto
XV 3, I-16132, Genova , Italy +0039 010 3538362 ; schensil@unige.it.

Introduction: Breakpoint cluster region Abelson (Bcr-Abl) tyrosine kinase (TK) is
a constitutively activated cytoplasmic TK and is the underlying cause of chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML). To date, imatinib represents the frontline treatment for 
CML therapy. The development of resistance has prompted the search for novel
Bcr-Abl inhibitors. Areas covered: This review presents a short overview of drugs
already approved for CML therapy and of the compounds that are in clinical
trials. The body of the article deals with Bcr-Abl inhibitors patented since
2008, focusing on their chemical features. Expert opinion: The search for Bcr-Abl
inhibitors is very active. We believe that a number of patented compounds could
enter clinical trials and some could be approved for CML therapy in the next few 
years. Overall, Bcr-Abl inhibitors constitute a very appealing research field
that can be expected to expand further.

PMID: 25656651  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


143. Gut. 2015 Feb 6. pii: gutjnl-2014-308316. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2014-308316. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells redirected against hepatitis C
virus (HCV) E2 glycoprotein.

Sautto GA(1), Wisskirchen K(2), Clementi N(1), Castelli M(1), Diotti RA(1), Graf 
J(2), Clementi M(1), Burioni R(1), Protzer U(2), Mancini N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di Microbiologia e Virologia, Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele,
Milan, Italy. (2)Institute of Virology, Technische Universität München/Helmholtz 
Zentrum München, Munich, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The recent availability of novel antiviral drugs has raised new hope
for a more effective treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and its
severe sequelae. However, in the case of non-responding or relapsing patients,
alternative strategies are needed. To this end we have used chimeric antigen
receptors (CARs), a very promising approach recently used in several clinical
trials to redirect primary human T cells against different tumours. In
particular, we designed the first CARs against HCV targeting the HCV/E2
glycoprotein (HCV/E2).
DESIGN: Anti-HCV/E2 CARs were composed of single-chain variable fragments (scFvs)
obtained from a broadly cross-reactive and cross-neutralising human monoclonal
antibody (mAb), e137, fused to the intracellular signalling motif of the
costimulatory CD28 molecule and the CD3ζ domain. Activity of CAR-grafted T cells 
was evaluated in vitro against HCV/E2-transfected cells as well as hepatocytes
infected with cell culture-derived HCV (HCVcc).
RESULTS: In this proof-of-concept study, retrovirus-transduced human T cells
expressing anti-HCV/E2 CARs were endowed with specific antigen recognition
accompanied by degranulation and secretion of proinflammatory and antiviral
cytokines, such as interferon γ, interleukin 2 and tumour necrosis factor α.
Moreover, CAR-grafted T cells were capable of lysing target cells of both hepatic
and non-hepatic origin expressing on their surface the HCV/E2 glycoproteins of
the most clinically relevant genotypes, including 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 4 and 5.
Finally, and more importantly, they were capable of lysing HCVcc-infected
hepatocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: Clearance of HCV-infected cells is a major therapeutic goal in
chronic HCV infection, and adoptive transfer of anti-HCV/E2 CARs-grafted T cells 
represents a promising new therapeutic tool.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25661083  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


144. Gynecol Obstet Invest. 2015 Feb 6. [Epub ahead of print]

Combined Oral Contraceptive for Treatment of Women with Uterine Fibroids and
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: A Systematic Review.

Moroni RM(1), Martins WP, Dias SV, Vieira CS, Ferriani RA, Nastri CO, Brito LG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School of Ribeirao Preto,
University of Sao Paulo (FMRP-USP), Ribeirao Preto, Brazil.

Background/Aims: We aimed at assessing the efficacy of combined oral
contraceptives (COC) in treating women with uterine leiomyomata and heavy
menstrual bleeding (HMB), as well as their effect over quality of life (QoL),
tumor size, and hemoglobin concentration. Methods: We searched various electronic
databases and reference lists from all included studies. Randomized and
nonrandomized controlled clinical trials were selected, and two trials were
considered eligible - one randomized and one 'pseudo'-randomized. Results: COCs
performed less well than levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine systems (LNG-IUSs)
in controlling HMB, improving QoL, and improving the hemoglobin concentration,
whereas the estimate was not sufficiently precise to define whether COCs were
better than, equal to, or worse than LNG-IUSs in reducing tumor size. It must be 
stressed that these results are based on low-quality evidence, stemming from a
single trial. Additionally, COCs were more effective than placebo in tumor size
reduction, another conclusion based on another single study, considered as being 
at a high risk of bias and judged as very low-quality evidence. Conclusion:
Evidence regarding the use of COCs as treatment for women with symptomatic
fibroids is very scarce and of low quality, and we are very uncertain about the
real efficacy of such treatment. © 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

PMID: 25661737  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


145. Haematologica. 2015 Feb 6. pii: haematol.2014.115808. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy and safety of frontline therapy with "FCR" regimen for chronic
lymphocytic leukemia outside clinical trials: the Israeli chronic lymphocytic
leukemia study group experience.

Herishanu Y(1), Goldschmidt N(2), Bairey O(3), Ruchlemer R(4), Fineman R(5),
Rahimi-Levene N(6), Shvidel L(7), Tadmor T(8), Ariel A(9), Braester A(10),
Shapiro M(11), Joffe E(11), Polliack A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center; yairh@tlvmc.gov.il. (2)Hadassah University
Hospital; (3)Rabin Medical Center; (4)Shaare Zedek Medical Center; (5)Rambam
Medical Center; (6)Assaf Harofeh Medical Center; (7)Kaplan Medical Center;
(8)Bnai-Zion Medical Center; (9)Emek Medical Center; (10)Western Galilee
Hospital; (11)Tel-Aviv Medical Center.

This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the
fludarabine-cyclophosphamide-rituximab regimen for young physically fit patients 
with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the "real-life" setting. We specifically
focused on the impact of dose reduction on patient outcomes. The patient cohort
consisted of 128 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (≤70 years) treated
at 10 Israeli centers with frontline fludarabine-cyclophosphamide-rituximab. We
defined reduced chemotherapy as ≤2/3 of the total indicated dose. Patients
treated with rituximab were divided into two groups and compared, those who
received full dosages of 375mg/m2 or 500mg/m2 and patients given less than six
cycles with either dose. Overall and clinical complete response rates (92.8% and 
70.4%) as well as toxicities and overall survival (median not reached at 6 years)
were similar to other reported clinical trials, but progression free survival,
was shorter (42.5 months). Almost 50% of patients had some dose reduction of
chemotherapy, 21% receiving ≤2/3 of the indicated dose, while close to 30% did
not complete six cycles of rituximab. Reduced doses of chemotherapy and rituximab
were independently associated with shorter progression free survival (hazard
ratio-3.6, p<0.0001 for reduced chemotherapy; hazard ratio-2.5, p=0.003 for
incomplete-treatment with rituximab). Achieving a complete response was
associated with longer overall survival but was not linked to the given dose of
chemoimmunotherapy. In younger physically fit patients, frontline
fludarabine-cyclophosphamide-rituximab therapy in the "real-life" setting,
achieves long remissions (albeit shorter than in clinical trials) and prolonged
overall survival. However, dose reductions are commonly administered and may
impact outcome.

Copyright © 2015, Ferrata Storti Foundation.

PMID: 25661442  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


146. J Am Pharm Assoc (2003). 2015 Feb 6:e72-e86. doi: 10.1331/JAPhA.2015.15508. [Epub
ahead of print]

Hepatitis C therapy: Looking toward interferon-sparing regimens.

Au TH, Destache CJ, Vivekanandan R.

Objective: To describe chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, including its
epidemiology and pathophysiology; review current treatment options for HCV
infection; recognize investigational agents being studied as part of
interferon-free therapy; and summarize clinical trials for the new agents.
Data sources: PubMed for 2004 through August 2014 using search terms hepatitis C,
American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, sofosbuvir, simeprevir, and
as needed specific names of other agents in development during this time; news
articles and news releases about company actions with regard to clinical trials
and filings for marketing approval in the United States.
Study selection: At the discretion of the author based on clinical relevance of
study and relevance to national guidelines for HCV therapy.
Results: HCV infection is an important medical and public health problem in the
United States and worldwide that can cause cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma,
and liver failure. The advent of newly developed targeted therapies is changing
the treatment paradigm for this disease. Although traditional therapy with
pegylated interferon and ribavirin remain therapeutic options, direct-acting
agents such as sofosbuvir (Sovaldi-Gilead) and simeprevir (Olysio-Janssen) are
producing faster, earlier, and improved treatment response with fewer adverse
effects. The combination of anti-HCV agents and the duration of treatment are
based on genotype, patient treatment status, and patient risk factors. The
dramatic and sustained clearance of the virus with these drugs makes sustained
virologic response a reality for patients who are unable to tolerate pegylated
interferon. The downside is their high cost, which may make them economically
unsustainable. However, for patients infected with HCV, the potential for a cure 
and improved quality of life may now be a reality.
Conclusion: HCV, a well-known blood-borne disease associated with significant
morbidity and mortality worldwide, can be effectively and safely treated with new
anti-HCV agents such as SOF. While these new medications are in their early days 
of real-world practice, they offer hope that cure is truly possible.

PMID: 25658389  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


147. J Control Release. 2015 Feb 6. pii: S0168-3659(15)00099-1. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.02.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Heart regeneration after miocardial infarction using synthetic biomaterials.

Pascual-Gil S(1), Garbayo E(1), Díaz-Herráez P(1), Prosper F(2), Blanco-Prieto
MJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Technology, School of Pharmacy,
University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (2)Hematology, Cardiology and Cell
Therapy, Clínica Universidad de Navarra and Foundation for Applied Medical
Research, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. (3)Department of Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Technology, School of Pharmacy, University of Navarra, Pamplona,
Spain. Electronic address: mjblanco@unav.es.

Myocardial infarction causes almost 7.3 million deaths each year worldwide.
However, current treatments are more palliative than curative. Presently, cell
and protein therapies are considered the most promising alternative treatments.
Clinical trials performed until now have demonstrated that these therapies are
limited by protein short half-life and by low transplanted cell survival rate,
prompting the development of novel cell and protein delivery systems able to
overcome such limitations. In this review we discuss the advances made in the
last 10years in the emerging field of cardiac repair using biomaterial-based
delivery systems with focus on the progress made on preclinical in vivo studies. 
Then, we focus in cardiac tissue engineering approaches, and how the
incorporation of both cells and proteins together into biomaterials has opened
new horizons in the myocardial infarction treatment. Finally, the ongoing
challenges and the perspectives for future work in cardiac tissue engineering
will also be discussed.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25665866  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


148. J Hematol Oncol. 2015 Feb 6;8(1):8. [Epub ahead of print]

Hematology research output from Chinese authors and other countries: a 10-year
survey of the literature.

Zhang L, Ye X, Sun Y, Deng AM, Qian BH.

BackgroundHematologic disease affects people of all ages worldwide. In the past
decade, researchers have made great progress in the field of hematology. In the
present study we compared the hematology research output from China and other
countries (USA, Germany, UK, Japan and South Korea) over the past 10 years and
5 years.MethodsThe related articles were extracted based on the PubMed database. 
We recorded the number of publications, clinical trials, randomized controlled
trials, meta-analyses, case reports, reviews, citations, impact factors, articles
in the top 10 journals and most published journals to assess the quantity and
quality of research output in each region.ResultsA total of 120,641
hematology-related articles were published from 2004 to 2013. The USA accounted
for 27.13% (32,732/120,641) of the publications, followed by Germany
(7,479/120,641; 6.20%), Japan (6,347/120,641; 5.26%), the UK (5,453/120,641;
4.52%), China (2,924/120,641; 2.42%) and South Korea (1,413/120,641; 1.17%). The 
ranking for cumulative impact factors was as follows: USA; Germany; UK; Japan;
China and South Korea. The median impact factors in the UK, USA, and Germany were
higher than Japan, South Korea, and China. Interestingly, the median impact
factors in the three Asia countries were similar both in 2004¿2013 and 2009¿2013.
The UK had the highest percentage of publications in the top 25% of journals,
while China lagged behind and ranked last. When comparing the number of articles 
in the top 10 journals, the results were similar to the IF findings. Germany had 
the highest number of average citations, while China had the lowest number of
average citation. The status of hematology research output from the 6 countries
in 2009¿2013 had little difference from 2004¿2013.ConclusionsThus, the USA has
had a dominant role in hematologic research in the past 10 years. Overall, the
quality of publications in European countries was better than Asia countries.
Although China has made considerable progress in hematology research, the quality
of research needs improvement.

PMID: 25653049  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


149. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Feb 6;107(4). pii: djv003. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djv003.
Print 2015 Apr.

Application of molecular profiling in clinical trials for advanced metastatic
cancers.

Kummar S(1), Williams PM(2), Lih CJ(2), Polley EC(2), Chen AP(2), Rubinstein
LV(2), Zhao Y(2), Simon RM(2), Conley BA(2), Doroshow JH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, MD (SK, ECP, APC, LVR, YZ, RMS, BAC, JHD); Applied/Developmental
Research Directorate, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., Frederick National
Laboratory for Cancer Research, Frederick, MD (PMW, CJL). kummars@mail.nih.gov.
(2)Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, MD (SK, ECP, APC, LVR, YZ, RMS, BAC, JHD); Applied/Developmental
Research Directorate, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., Frederick National
Laboratory for Cancer Research, Frederick, MD (PMW, CJL).

There is growing interest in the application of molecular profiling, including
sequencing, genotyping, and/or mRNA expression profiling, to the analysis of
patient tumors with the objective of applying these data to inform therapeutic
choices for patients with advanced cancers. Multiple clinical trials that are
attempting to validate this personalized or precision medicine approach are in
various stages of development and execution. Although preliminary data from some 
of these efforts have fueled excitement about the value and utility of these
studies, their execution has also provoked many questions about the best way to
approach complicating factors such as tumor heterogeneity and the choice of which
genetic mutations to target. This commentary highlights some of the challenges
confronting the clinical application of molecular tumor profiling and the various
trial designs being utilized to address these challenges. Randomized trials that 
rigorously test patient response to molecularly targeted agents assigned based on
the presence of a defined set of mutations in putative cancer-driving pathways
are required to address some of the current challenges and to identify patients
likely to benefit from this approach.

Published by Oxford University Press 2015.

PMID: 25663694  [PubMed - in process]


150. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Feb 6;107(3). pii: dju491. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju491.
Print 2015 Mar.

Comparative Effectiveness of Laparoscopy vs Open Colectomy Among Nonmetastatic
Colon Cancer Patients: An Analysis Using the National Cancer Data Base.

Zheng Z(1), Jemal A(2), Lin CC(2), Hu CY(2), Chang GJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Surveillance and Health Services Research Program, Department of Intramural
Research, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA (ZZ, AJ, CCL); Department of
Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX
(CYH, GJC); Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology Network and American College
of Surgeons Clinical Research Program, Chicago, IL (GJC); Alliance for Clinical
Trials in Oncology Network and American College of Surgeons Clinical Research
Program, Chicago, IL (GJC). jason.zheng@cancer.org. (2)Surveillance and Health
Services Research Program, Department of Intramural Research, American Cancer
Society, Atlanta, GA (ZZ, AJ, CCL); Department of Surgical Oncology, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX (CYH, GJC); Alliance
for Clinical Trials in Oncology Network and American College of Surgeons Clinical
Research Program, Chicago, IL (GJC); Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology
Network and American College of Surgeons Clinical Research Program, Chicago, IL
(GJC).

BACKGROUND: Randomized clinical trials showed that laparoscopic colectomy (LC) is
superior to open colectomy (OC) in short-term surgical outcomes; however, the
generalizability among real-world patients is not clear.
METHODS: The National Cancer Data Base was used to identify stage I-III colon
cancer patients age 18 to 84 years in 2010 and 2011. A propensity score analysis 
with 1:1 matching (PS) was used to avoid the effect of treatment selection bias. 
Patients were clustered at the hospital level for multilevel regression analyses.
The main outcomes measured were 30-day mortality, unplanned readmissions, length 
of stay (LOS), and initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy among stage III patients. 
All statistical tests were two-sided.
RESULTS: A total of 45 876 patients were analyzed, 18 717 (41%) LC and 27 159
(59%) OC. After PS matching, there were 18 230 patients in both groups and they
were well balanced on their covariables. Compared with OC, LC showed consistent
benefits in 30-day mortality (1.3% vs 2.3 %, odds ratio [OR] = 0.59, 95%
confidence interval [CI] = 0.49 to 0.69, P < .001) and LOS (median 5 vs 6 days,
incident rate ratio = 0.83, 95% CI = 0.8 to 0.84, P < .001). LC was also
associated with a higher rate of adjuvant chemotherapy use in stage III patients 
(72.3% vs 67.0%, P < .001). LC was more likely to be performed by high-volume
surgeons in high-volume hospitals, but there was no significant effect of the
hospital/surgeon volume on short-term outcomes.
CONCLUSION: In routine clinical practice, laparoscopic colectomy is associated
with lower 30-day mortality, shorter length of stay, and greater likelihood of
adjuvant chemotherapy initiation among stage III colon cancer patients when
compared with open colectomy.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25663688  [PubMed - in process]


151. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2015 Feb 6. doi: 10.1111/jog.12657. [Epub ahead of print]

Umbilical cord milking reduces need for red cell transfusions and improves
neonatal adaptation in preterm infants: Meta-analysis.

Dang D(1), Zhang C, Shi S, Mu X, Lv X, Wu H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neonatology, First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun,
China.

AIM: To assess effects of umbilical cord milking (UCM) on early blood pressure
stabilization, hemoglobin (Hb), as well as incidence of transfusion and
complications in preterm infants.
METHODS: This meta-analysis was conducted by searching the Pubmed, EMBASE and
Cochrane Library (until July 2014) databases. Any clinical trials, including
randomized control trials, comparing UCM to immediate cord clamping (ICC) were
analyzed.
RESULTS: Six studies were included in this meta-analysis. In total, 292 preterm
infants were treated with UCM, while 295 received ICC. Compared to ICC, UCM
increased initial Hb significantly by 1.84 g/dL (weighted mean difference; 95%CI:
0.91-2.76; P < 0.0001) and decreased the incidence of transfusion with a pooled
risk ratio of 0.74 (95%CI: 0.61-0.90; P = 0.002). Incidence of necrotizing
enterocolitis (NEC), intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) and mortality were
significantly lower with UCM compared with ICC. Apgar score and temperature were 
not significantly different between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: By facilitating the early stabilization of blood pressure, UCM at
preterm birth was found to be comparatively safe and associated with lower blood 
transfusion exposure and lower incidence of IVH, NEC and death.

© 2015 The Authors. Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Research © 2015 Japan
Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

PMID: 25656528  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


152. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 2015 Feb 6. [Epub ahead of print]

Outpatient holmium laser treatment for recurrent low-grade superficial bladder
cancer under local anesthesia.

Cano-García MC(1), Fernández-Aparicio T, Hidalgo-Agulló G, Reina-Alcaina L,
Carrillo-George C, Rivero-Guerra A, Miñana-López B.

Author information: 
(1)Urology Department Hospital La Inmaculada Huercal Overa Almería Spain -
mamen.cano@hotmail.com.

AIM: To analyze the results of a prospective study of a cohort of patients
undergoing outpatient holmium laser fulguration. The "gold standard" treatment of
superficial bladder cancer is transurethral resection, although in recent years, 
improvements of laser energy and endoscopy equipment have allowed for further
therapeutic alternatives.
METHODS: This is a descriptive study of a cohort of 37 patients with low-risk
recurrent superficial bladder cancer undergoing holmium laser fulguration after
bladder instillation of local anesthesia. The study included patients with a
history of low-risk primary superficial bladder cancer with papillary tumor
recurrence, tumor size ≤ 10 mm, fewer than 5 tumors, absence of carcinoma in
situ, negative cytology, no coagulation disorders and no local anesthesia
allergies. Demographic variables, previous history of transurethral resection,
safety and oncological results after fulguration were analyzed using the SPSS
software. Statistical analyses include calculating mean and frequency, and
Kaplan-Meier curve for recurrence.
RESULTS: Mean age of the patients was 69.2 years with 86.5% being male. The
number of tumors was 1.5 ± 0.8 and the overall average size of 5.5 ± 2.7 mm. The 
mean duration of the endoscopic procedure was 12 ± 4.3 minutes. Hundred percent
of patients had scores on the visual analogue scale ≤ 3. There was only one case 
of hematuria, who required hospitalization. After a median follow-up period of 13
months, there was a 35.1% recurrence rate with one case of tumor progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Holmium laser treatment of recurrent low-risk superficial bladder
tumor is a safe and effective alternative, but long-term clinical trials are
necessary to increase the current scientific evidence base.

PMID: 25658687  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


153. Mult Scler. 2015 Feb 6. pii: 1352458515569098. [Epub ahead of print]

Sample-size calculations for short-term proof-of-concept studies of tissue
protection and repair in multiple sclerosis lesions via conventional clinical
imaging.

Reich DS(1), White R(2), Cortese IC(3), Vuolo L(3), Shea CD(3), Collins TL(4),
Petkau J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroimmunology and Neurovirology, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, USA
reichds@ninds.nih.gov. (2)Department of Statistics, University of British
Columbia, Canada. (3)Division of Neuroimmunology and Neurovirology, National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health,
USA. (4)Myelin Repair Foundation, USA.

BACKGROUND: New multiple sclerosis (MS) lesion activity on magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) can test immunomodulatory therapies in proof-of-concept trials.
Comparably powerful endpoints to assess tissue protection or repair are lacking.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper is to report sample-size calculations for 
assessment of new lesion recovery.
METHODS: In two sets of six active MS cases, new lesions were observed by monthly
MRI for approximately 12 months. Averages and quartiles of normalized (proton
density/T1/T2 weighted) and quantitative (T1/T2 and mean diffusivity maps for
dataset 1, T2 and magnetization transfer ratio maps for dataset 2) measures were 
used to compare the lesion area before lesion appearance to afterward. A linear
mixed-effects model incorporating lesion- and participant-specific random effects
estimated average levels and variance components for sample-size calculations.
RESULTS: In both datasets, greatest statistical sensitivity was observed for the 
25th percentile of normalized proton density-weighted signal. At 3T, using new
lesions ⩾15 mm(3), as few as nine participants/arm may be required for a
six-month placebo-controlled add-on trial postulating a therapeutic effect size
of 20% and statistical power of 90%.
CONCLUSION: Lesion recovery is a powerful outcome measure for proof-of-concept
clinical trials of tissue protection and repair in MS. The trial design requires 
active cases and is therefore best implemented near disease onset.

© The Author(s), 2015.

PMID: 25662351  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


154. Neurology. 2015 Feb 6. pii: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001333. [Epub ahead of print]

Thromboembolic events in Fabry disease and the impact of factor V Leiden.

Lenders M(1), Karabul N(1), Duning T(1), Schmitz B(1), Schelleckes M(1), Mesters 
R(1), Hense HW(1), Beck M(1), Brand SM(1), Brand E(2).

Author information: 
(1)From Internal Medicine D, Department of Nephrology, Hypertension and
Rheumatology (M.L., M.S., E.B.), Department of Neurology (T.D.), Institute of
Sports Medicine, Molecular Genetics of Cardiovascular Disease (B.S., S.-M.B.),
Internal Medicine A, Department of Hematology and Oncology (R.M.), Institute of
Epidemiology and Social Medicine (H.-W.H.), University Hospital Muenster; and
Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine (N.K., M.B.), Villa Metabolica,
University Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg University, University of
Mainz, Germany. (2)From Internal Medicine D, Department of Nephrology,
Hypertension and Rheumatology (M.L., M.S., E.B.), Department of Neurology (T.D.),
Institute of Sports Medicine, Molecular Genetics of Cardiovascular Disease (B.S.,
S.-M.B.), Internal Medicine A, Department of Hematology and Oncology (R.M.),
Institute of Epidemiology and Social Medicine (H.-W.H.), University Hospital
Muenster; and Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine (N.K., M.B.), Villa
Metabolica, University Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg University,
University of Mainz, Germany. eva.brand@ukmuenster.de.

OBJECTIVES: Although several reports suggest an increased thromboembolic event
rate, especially regarding strokes and TIAs at early age in patients with Fabry
disease (FD), the risk for patients with FD to experience these events, the
clinical relevance of additional risk factors including the concurrence of factor
V Leiden (FVL), and the benefit of enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) regarding
these events remain unclear.
METHODS: Three hundred four consecutively recruited patients with FD were
evaluated for their lifetime occurrence of thromboembolic events such as stroke, 
TIA, deep vein thrombosis, and pulmonary embolism. The thromboembolic risk was
determined in patients with FD and concurrent FVL, and the impact of ERT was
assessed.
RESULTS: The 304 patients with FD had a median age of 41 years and 53 (17.4%) had
experienced at least one thromboembolic event during their lifetime. Among 226
patients with FD screened for FVL, 16 gene carriers were identified (7.1%). The
occurrence of thromboembolic events in patients with FD and concurrent FVL was
significantly increased compared to those without FVL (hazard ratio = 5.45, 95%
confidence interval 2.29-12.99; p < 0.001). Patients with FD receiving ERT had a 
significantly decreased risk of thromboembolic events compared to those without
ERT (hazard ratio = 0.362, 95% confidence interval 0.132-0.992; p = 0.0422).
CONCLUSION: This observational study confirms that patients with FD have a high
risk of clinically relevant thromboembolic events, which could be aggravated by a
concurrence of FVL. ERT might be of benefit in preventing vascular events in
patients with FD. The latter observation needs confirmation, however, by
randomized and controlled clinical trials.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 25663229  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


155. Nutrients. 2015 Feb 6;7(2):1108-1118.

Homocysteine, Iron and Cardiovascular Disease: A Hypothesis.

Baggott JE(1), Tamura T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition Sciences, University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. marilynbaggott@att.net. (2)Department of Nutrition
Sciences, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.
tamurat@uab.edu.

Elevated circulating total homocysteine (tHcy) concentrations
(hyperhomocysteinemia) have been regarded as an independent risk factor for
cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, several large clinical trials to correct
hyperhomocysteinemia using B-vitamin supplements (particularly folic acid) have
largely failed to reduce the risk of CVD. There is no doubt that a large segment 
of patients with CVD have hyperhomocysteinemia; therefore, it is reasonable to
postulate that circulating tHcy concentrations are in part a surrogate marker for
another, yet-to-be-identified risk factor(s) for CVD. We found that iron
catalyzes the formation of Hcy from methionine, S-adenosylhomocysteine and
cystathionine. Based on these findings, we propose that an elevated amount of
non-protein-bound iron (free Fe) increases circulating tHcy. Free Fe catalyzes
the formation of oxygen free radicals, and oxidized low-density lipoprotein is a 
well-established risk factor for vascular damage. In this review, we discuss our 
findings on iron-catalyzed formation of Hcy from thioethers as well as recent
findings by other investigators on this issue. Collectively, these support our
hypothesis that circulating tHcy is in part a surrogate marker for free Fe, which
is one of the independent risk factors for CVD.

PMID: 25668155  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


156. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2015 Feb 6;69(0):176-87.

Mycophenolate mofetil - 20 years of experience in treatment of rheumatic
diseases.

[No authors listed]

Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) has been used in rheumatology for over 20 years. When
transformed to the active metabolite of mycophenolic acid, it is a potent,
selective, reversible inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase, a key
enzyme of de novo purine synthesis, exerting a cytostatic effect on T and B
cells. It also induces apoptosis of antigen-activated T cell clones, reduces the 
production of antibodies to inhibit the expression of adhesion molecules,
reducing the influx of leukocytes and monocytes to inflammatory sites, and has
anti-fibrotic properties. Although the main branch of medicine that uses MMF is
transplantation, rheumatologists experienced in application of this drug
confirmed its usefulness in the treatment of connective tissue diseases. In
comparison with immunosuppressives available in rheumatology, MMF has a very good
safety profile and is well tolerated by patients. Through multi-center,
randomized, controlled clinical trials, MMF has become well established in the
treatment of lupus nephritis. Conclusions about its effectiveness in other
rheumatologic indications are not entirely clear, being derived from small
clinical trials, observational studies and case reports. They suggest that MMF
may also be used to treat extrarenal symptoms of SLE, interstitial lung disease
in the course of SSc (systemic sclerosis), PM/DM (polymyositis/dermatomyositis), 
and skin lesions in these diseases, myositis and systemic vasculitis. It should
be emphasized that MMF has proved effective in many cases complicated by
multidrug resistance to immunosuppressive therapy and has allowed a significant
reduction of long-term corticotherapy or its withdrawal.

PMID: 25661917  [PubMed - in process]


157. Schizophr Res. 2015 Feb 6. pii: S0920-9964(15)00063-8. doi:
10.1016/j.schres.2015.01.033. [Epub ahead of print]

A systematic review of the antipsychotic properties of cannabidiol in humans.

Iseger TA(1), Bossong MG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, Department of Psychosis Studies, King's College
London, 16 De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, United Kingdom. (2)Institute of
Psychiatry, Department of Psychosis Studies, King's College London, 16 De
Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, United Kingdom; Brain Center Rudolf Magnus,
Department of Psychiatry, University Medical Center Utrecht, Heidelberglaan 100, 
3584 CX Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: m.bossong@umcutrecht.nl.

Despite extensive study over the past decades, available treatments for
schizophrenia are only modestly effective and cause serious metabolic and
neurological side effects. Therefore, there is an urgent need for novel
therapeutic targets for the treatment of schizophrenia. A highly promising new
pharmacological target in the context of schizophrenia is the endocannabinoid
system. Modulation of this system by the main psychoactive component in cannabis,
Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), induces acute psychotic effects and cognitive
impairment. However, the non-psychotropic, plant-derived cannabinoid agent
cannabidiol (CBD) may have antipsychotic properties, and thus may be a promising 
new agent in the treatment of schizophrenia. Here we review studies that
investigated the antipsychotic properties of CBD in human subjects. Results show 
the ability of CBD to counteract psychotic symptoms and cognitive impairment
associated with cannabis use as well as with acute THC administration. In
addition, CBD may lower the risk for developing psychosis that is related to
cannabis use. These effects are possibly mediated by opposite effects of CBD and 
THC on brain activity patterns in key regions implicated in the pathophysiology
of schizophrenia, such as the striatum, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. The
first small-scale clinical studies with CBD treatment of patients with psychotic 
symptoms further confirm the potential of CBD as an effective, safe and
well-tolerated antipsychotic compound, although large randomised clinical trials 
will be needed before this novel therapy can be introduced into clinical
practice.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25667194  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


158. Tissue Eng Part A. 2015 Feb 6. [Epub ahead of print]

Compaction, Fusion, and Functional Activation of Three-Dimensional Human
Mesenchymal Stem Cell Aggregate.

Tsai AC(1), Liu Y, Yuan X, Ma T.

Author information: 
(1)Florida State University, Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, Tallahassee,
Florida, United States ; at11h@my.fsu.edu.

Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) are primary candidates in cell therapy and
tissue engineering and are being tested in clinical trials for a wide range of
diseases. Originally isolated and expanded as plastic adherent cells, hMSCs have 
intriguing properties of in vitro self-assembly into three-dimensional (3D)
aggregates that improve a range of biological properties, including multilineage 
potential, secretion of therapeutic factors, and resistance against ischemic
condition. While cell-cell contacts and cell-ECM interactions mediate 3D cell
aggregation, the adaptive changes of hMSC cytoskeleton during self-assembly and
associated metabolic reconfiguration may also influence aggregate properties and 
functional activation. In the current study, we investigated the role of actin in
regulating 3D hMSC aggregate compaction, fusion, spreading and functional
activation. Individual hMSC aggregates with controlled initial cell number were
formed by seeding a known number of hMSCs (500, 2,000, and 5,000 cells/well) in
multi-well plates of ultra-low adherent (ULA) surface to form multicellular
aggregates in individual wells. To assess the influence of actin-mediated
contractility on hMSC aggregation and properties, actin modulators, including
cytochalasin D (cytoD), nocodazole, lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), and Y-27632,
were added at different stages of aggregation and their impacts on hMSC aggregate
compaction and apoptosis were monitored. The results suggest that actin-mediated 
contractility influences hMSC aggregation, compaction, fusion, and spreading on
adherent surface. Formation of multi-cellular aggregates significantly
up-regulated caspase 3/7 expression, expression of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 
4 (CXCR-4), cell migration, secretion of prostaglandin E2 (PGE-2) and interleukin
6 (IL-6), and resistance to in vitro ischemic stress. The functional enhancement,
however, is dependent on caspase activation because treatment with Q-VD-OPh, a
pan-caspase inhibitor attenuated CXCR-4 and cytokine secretion. Importantly,
comparable ATP/cell levels and significantly reduced mitochondrial membrane
potential in aggregates of different sizes suggest that altered mitochondria
bioenergetics upon 3D aggregation is the primary inducer for apoptosis. Together 
the results suggest multicellular aggregation as an effective and non-genetic
strategy for hMSC functional activation.

PMID: 25661745  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


159. World J Nephrol. 2015 Feb 6;4(1):118-26. doi: 10.5527/wjn.v4.i1.118.

Time to re-evaluate effects of renin-angiotensin system inhibitors on renal and
cardiovascular outcomes in diabetic nephropathy.

Suzuki H(1), Kikuta T(1), Inoue T(1), Hamada U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hiromichi Suzuki, Tomohiro Kikuta, Tsutomu Inoue, Ukihiro Hamada, Department
of Nephrology and Community Health Science Center, Saitama Medical University,
Saitama 350-0495, Japan.

The use of renin-angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitors, such angiotensin converting
enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin-II receptor blockers, to slow progression of
chronic kidney disease (CKD) in a large group dominated by elderly people in the 
real world is not supported by available evidence. Large-scale clinical trials
had many faults, among them a lack of focus on the elderly. However, it would be 
difficult to conduct clinical trials of a similar scale in elderly CKD patients. 
Besides, progression of kidney disease is often slow in elderly persons, and the 
vast majority of older adults with CKD will die before reaching end stage renal
disease. Moreover, since it is not clear that progression of kidney disease, and 
even of proteinuric diabetic nephropathy, is not inhibited through the use of RAS
inhibitors, the most patient-centric goal of therapy for many elderly individuals
should be individualized.

PMCID: PMC4317622
PMID: 25664254  [PubMed]


160. Am J Transplant. 2015 Feb 5. doi: 10.1111/ajt.13007. [Epub ahead of print]

Optimization of Intrabone Delivery of Hematopoietic Progenitor Cells in a Swine
Model Using Cell Radiolabeling with [89]zirconium.

Pantin JM(1), Hoyt RF Jr, Aras O, Sato N, Chen MY, Hunt T, Clevenger R, Eclarinal
P, Adler S, Choyke P, Childs RW.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Georgia Regents University,
Augusta, GA; Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.

Intrabone (IB) hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) of umbilical cord blood
in humans remains experimental and the technique has not been optimized. It is
unknown whether hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) injected IB are initially
retained in the marrow or rapidly enter into the venous circulation before homing
to the marrow. To develop an IB-injection technique that maximizes HPC
marrow-retention, we tracked radiolabeled human HPCs following IB-injection into 
swine. We developed a method to radionuclide-label HPCs using a long-lived
positron emitter (89) Zr and protamine sulfate that resulted in
cellular-retention of low-dose radioactivity. This approach achieved
radioactivity levels sufficient for detection by positron emission tomography
with both high sensitivity and spatial resolution when fused with computed
tomography. We found that conditions utilized in pilot IB-HCT clinical trials
conducted by others led to both rapid drainage into the central venous
circulation and cellular extravasation into surrounding muscle and soft tissues. 
By optimizing the needle design, using continuous real-time intra-marrow pressure
monitoring, and by reducing the infusion-volume and infusion-rate, we overcame
this limitation and achieved high retention of HPCs in the marrow. This method of
IB cellular delivery is readily applicable in the clinic and could be utilized in
future investigational IB-HCT trials aimed at maximizing marrow retention of
HPCs.

Published 2015. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

PMID: 25656824  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


161. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2015 Feb 5. pii: ATVBAHA.114.304457. [Epub ahead
of print]

P-Selectin Inhibition Therapeutically Promotes Thrombus Resolution and Prevents
Vein Wall Fibrosis Better Than Enoxaparin and an Inhibitor to von Willebrand
Factor.

Diaz JA(1), Wrobleski SK(2), Alvarado CM(2), Hawley AE(2), Doornbos NK(2), Lester
PA(2), Lowe SE(2), Gabriel JE(2), Roelofs KJ(2), Henke PK(2), Schaub RG(2),
Wakefield TW(2), Myers DD Jr(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Conrad Jobst
Vascular Research Laboratories (J.A.D., S.K.W., C.M.A., A.E.H., N.K.D., J.E.G.,
K.J.R., P.K.H., T.W.W., D.D.M.), Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine (C.M.A.,
P.A.L., D.D.M.), and Department of Radiology (S.E.L.), University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor; and Archemix Corporation, Cambridge, MA (R.G.S.).
josediaz@med.umich.edu. (2)From the Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of
Surgery, Conrad Jobst Vascular Research Laboratories (J.A.D., S.K.W., C.M.A.,
A.E.H., N.K.D., J.E.G., K.J.R., P.K.H., T.W.W., D.D.M.), Unit for Laboratory
Animal Medicine (C.M.A., P.A.L., D.D.M.), and Department of Radiology (S.E.L.),
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor; and Archemix Corporation, Cambridge, MA
(R.G.S.).

OBJECTIVE: Aptamers are oligonucleotides targeting protein-protein interactions
with pharmacokinetic profiles and activity reversal options. Although P-selectin 
and von Willebrand factor (vWF) have been implicated in the development of venous
thrombosis (VT), no studies have directly compared aptamer efficacy with standard
of care in VT. In this study, ARC5692, an anti-P-selectin aptamer, and ARC15105, 
an anti-vWF aptamer, were compared with low-molecular-weight heparin, enoxaparin,
to test the efficacy of P-selectin or vWF inhibition in promoting thrombus
resolution and preventing vein wall fibrosis, in a baboon model of VT.
APPROACH AND RESULTS: Groups were as follows: treatment arm: animals received
P-selectin or vWF aptamer inhibitors or enoxaparin (n=3 per group). Controls
received no treatment (n=3). Prophylactic arm: animals received P-selectin
inhibitor (n=4) or vWF inhibitor (n=3). Treatment arm: P-selectin-inhibitor
demonstrated a significant improvement in vein recanalization by magnetic
resonance venography (73% at day 21), and significantly decreased vein wall
collagen, compared with all groups. Anti-P-selectin equaled enoxaparin in
maintaining valve competency by ultrasound. All control animals had compromised
valve competency post thrombosis. Prophylactic arm: animals receiving P-selectin 
and vWF inhibitors demonstrated improved vein recanalization by magnetic
resonance venography versus controls (80% and 85%, respectively, at day 21).
Anti-P-selectin protected iliac valve function better than anti-vWF, and both
improved valve function versus controls. No adverse bleeding events were
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The P-selectin inhibitor aptamer promoted iliac vein recanalization,
preserved valve competency, and decreased vein wall fibrosis. The results of this
work suggest that P-selectin inhibition maybe an ideal target in the treatment
and prophylaxis of deep VT, warranting clinical trials.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

PMID: 25657307  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


162. BMC Med. 2015 Feb 5;13(1):27. doi: 10.1186/s12916-015-0270-2.

Why are there deadly drugs?

Lexchin J(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Health Policy and Management, York University, 4700 Keele St,,
Toronto M3J 1P3, Ontario, Canada. jlexchin@yorku.ca.

Some drugs eventually have to be removed from the market because of a negative
benefit-to-harm ratio, including an excess of mortality. Drug safety is the
result of multiple factors, commencing with how clinical trials are designed, the
information generated by and/or hidden through these trials, trial analysis by
drug regulatory authorities (DRAs) and the amount of information that DRAs choose
to release, the amount of published information regarding drug safety, the
effectiveness of postmarket surveillance systems in recognizing and reporting
adverse drug reactions, and the structure of DRAs such as the United States Food 
and Drug Administration and its equivalent in other countries. This commentary
will look at each of these issues in order to highlight the problems in the
current approach to drug safety and finally indicate how some of these
deficiencies should be addressed.Please see related article:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12916-014-0262-7.

PMCID: PMC4318445
PMID: 25656293  [PubMed - in process]


163. BMC Med. 2015 Feb 5;13(1):26. doi: 10.1186/s12916-014-0262-7.

Delays in the post-marketing withdrawal of drugs to which deaths have been
attributed: a systematic investigation and analysis.

Onakpoya IJ(1), Heneghan CJ, Aronson JK.

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, Centre for Evidence-based
Medicine, University of Oxford, New Radcliffe House, Radcliffe Observatory
Quarter, Oxford OX2 6GG, UK. igho.onakpoya@phc.ox.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Post-marketing withdrawal of medicinal products because of deaths can
be occasioned by evidence obtained from case reports, observational studies,
randomized trials, or systematic reviews. There have been no studies of the
pattern of withdrawals of medicinal products to which deaths have been
specifically attributed and the evidence that affects such decisions. Our
objectives were to identify medicinal products that were withdrawn after
marketing in association with deaths, to search for the evidence on which
withdrawal decisions were based, and to analyse the delays involved and the
worldwide patterns of withdrawal.
METHODS: We searched the World Health Organization's Consolidated List of
[Medicinal] Products, drug regulatory authorities' websites, PubMed, Google
Scholar, and textbooks on adverse drug reactions. We included medicinal products 
for which death was specifically mentioned as a reason for withdrawal from the
market. Non-human medicines, herbal products, and non-prescription medicines were
excluded. One reviewer extracted the data and a second reviewer verified them
independently.
RESULTS: We found 95 drugs for which death was documented as a reason for
withdrawal between 1950 and 2013. All were withdrawn in at least one country, but
at least 16 remained on the market in some countries. Withdrawals were more
common in European countries; few were recorded in Africa (5.3%). The more recent
the launch date, the sooner deaths were reported. However, in 47% of cases more
than 2 years elapsed between the first report of a death and withdrawal of the
drug, and the interval between the first report of a death attributed to a
medicinal product and eventual withdrawal of the product has not improved over
the last 60 years.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that some deaths associated with these
products could have been avoided. Manufacturers and regulatory authorities should
expedite investigations when deaths are reported as suspected adverse drug
reactions and consider early suspensions. Increased transparency in the
publication of clinical trials data and improved international co-ordination
could shorten the delays in withdrawing dangerous medicinal products after
reports of deaths and obviate discrepancies in drug withdrawals in different
countries.Please see related article:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12916-015-0270-2.

PMCID: PMC4318389
PMID: 25651859  [PubMed - in process]


164. BMC Psychiatry. 2015 Feb 5;15(1):16. [Epub ahead of print]

The Sleep Or Mood Novel Adjunctive therapy (SOMNA) trial: a study protocol for a 
randomised controlled trial evaluating an internet-delivered cognitive
behavioural therapy program for insomnia on outcomes of standard treatment for
depression in men.

Cockayne NL, Christensen HM, Griffiths KM, Naismith SL, Hickie IB, Thorndike FP, 
Ritterband LM, Glozier NS.

BackgroundInsomnia is a significant risk factor for depression onset, can result 
in more disabling depressive illness, and is a common residual symptom following 
treatment cessation that can increase the risk of relapse. Internet-based
cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia has demonstrated efficacy and
acceptability to men who are less likely than women to seek help in standard
care. We aim to evaluate whether internet delivered cognitive behavioural therapy
for insomnia as an adjunct to a standard depression therapeutic plan can lead to 
improved mood outcomes.Methods/DesignMale participants aged 50 years or more,
meeting Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders criteria for
current Major Depressive Episode and/or Dysthymia and self-reported insomnia
symptoms, will be screened to participate in a single-centre double-blind
randomised controlled trial with two parallel groups involving adjunctive
internet-delivered cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia and an
internet-based control program. The trial will consist of a nine-week insomnia
intervention period with a six-month follow-up period. During the insomnia
intervention period participants will have their depression management
coordinated by a psychiatrist using standard guideline-based depression
treatments. The study will be conducted in urban New South Wales, Australia,
where 80 participants from primary and secondary care and direct from the local
community will be recruited. The primary outcome is change in the severity of
depressive symptoms from baseline to week 12.DiscussionThis study will provide
evidence on whether a widely accessible, evidence-based, internet-delivered
cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia intervention can lead to greater
improvements than standard treatment for depression alone, in a group who
traditionally do not readily access psychotherapy. The study is designed to
establish effect size, feasibility and processes associated with implementing
e-health solutions alongside standard clinical care, to warrant undertaking a
larger more definitive clinical trial.Trial registrationAustralian and New
Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12612000985886.

PMCID: PMC4321324
PMID: 25652579  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


165. BMJ. 2015 Feb 5;350:h468. doi: 10.1136/bmj.h468.

An occupational therapy intervention for residents with stroke related
disabilities in UK care homes (OTCH): cluster randomised controlled trial.

Sackley CM(1), Walker MF(2), Burton CR(3), Watkins CL(4), Mant J(5), Roalfe
AK(6), Wheatley K(7), Sheehan B(8), Sharp L(9), Stant KE(6), Fletcher-Smith J(2),
Steel K(10), Wilde K(9), Irvine L(9), Peryer G(11); OTCH trial investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, King's College London, London, UK. (2)Division of
Rehabilitation and Ageing, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of
Nottingham, Nottingham, UK. (3)School of Healthcare Sciences, Bangor University, 
Bangor, Gwynedd, UK. (4)School of Health, UCLan, Preston, Lancashire, UK.
(5)Primary Care Unit, Department of Public Health & Primary Care, Cambridge, UK. 
(6)Primary Care Clinical Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(7)Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham,
UK. (8)Directorate of Acute Medicine and Rehabilitation, John Radcliffe Hospital,
Oxford, UK. (9)Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of East Anglia,
Norwich Research Park, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK. (10)Occupational Therapy, Queen
Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. (11)Faculty of Medical and Health 
Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK 
g.peryer@uea.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical efficacy of an established programme of
occupational therapy in maintaining functional activity and reducing further
health risks from inactivity in care home residents living with stroke sequelae.
DESIGN: Pragmatic, parallel group, cluster randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: 228 care homes (>10 beds each), both with and without the provision of
nursing care, local to 11 trial administrative centres across the United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 1042 care home residents with a history of stroke or transient
ischaemic attack, including those with language and cognitive impairments, not
receiving end of life care. 114 homes (n=568 residents, 64% from homes providing 
nursing care) were allocated to the intervention arm and 114 homes (n=474
residents, 65% from homes providing nursing care) to standard care (control arm).
Participating care homes were randomised between May 2010 and March 2012.
INTERVENTION: Targeted three month programme of occupational therapy, delivered
by qualified occupational therapists and assistants, involving patient centred
goal setting, education of care home staff, and adaptations to the environment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcome at the participant level: scores on the
Barthel index of activities of daily living at three months post-randomisation.
Secondary outcome measures at the participant level: Barthel index scores at six 
and 12 months post-randomisation, and scores on the Rivermead mobility index,
geriatric depression scale-15, and EuroQol EQ-5D-3L questionnaire, at all time
points.
RESULTS: 64% of the participants were women and 93% were white, with a mean age
of 82.9 years. Baseline characteristics were similar between groups for all
measures, personal characteristics, and diagnostic tests. Overall, 2538
occupational therapy visits were made to 498 participants in the intervention arm
(mean 5.1 visits per participant). No adverse events attributable to the
intervention were recorded. 162 (11%) died before the primary outcome time point,
and 313 (30%) died over the 12 months of the trial. The primary outcome measure
did not differ significantly between the treatment arms. The adjusted mean
difference in Barthel index score at three months was 0.19 points higher in the
intervention arm (95% confidence interval -0.33 to 0.70, P=0.48). Secondary
outcome measures also showed no significant differences at all time points.
CONCLUSIONS: This large phase III study provided no evidence of benefit for the
provision of a routine occupational therapy service, including staff training,
for care home residents living with stroke related disabilities. The established 
three month individualised course of occupational therapy targeting stroke
related disabilities did not have an impact on measures of functional activity,
mobility, mood, or health related quality of life, at all observational time
points. Providing and targeting ameliorative care in this clinically complex
population requires alternative strategies.Trial registration Current Controlled 
Trials ISRCTN00757750.

© Sackley et al 2015.

PMID: 25657106  [PubMed - in process]


166. BMJ. 2015 Feb 5;350:h217. doi: 10.1136/bmj.h217.

Labour induction with prostaglandins: a systematic review and network
meta-analysis.

Alfirevic Z(1), Keeney E(2), Dowswell T(3), Welton NJ(2), Dias S(2), Jones LV(3),
Navaratnam K(3), Caldwell DM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Women's Health Research, University of Liverpool and Liverpool
Women's Hospital, Liverpool L8 7SS, UK zarko@liv.ac.uk. (2)School of Social and
Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 2PS, UK. (3)Centre for
Women's Health Research, University of Liverpool and Liverpool Women's Hospital, 
Liverpool L8 7SS, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and safety of prostaglandins used for
labour induction.
DESIGN: Systematic review with Bayesian network meta-analysis
DATA SOURCES: The Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Database of Trials
(which incorporates the results of a broad generic search for all pregnancy and
postpartum trials). Sources included are CENTRAL, Medline, Embase, NHS Economic
Evaluation Database, CINAHL, relevant journals, conference proceedings, and
registries of ongoing trials.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTING STUDIES: Randomised clinical trials of
prostaglandin or prostaglandin analogues used for third trimester cervical
ripening or labour induction versus placebo or no treatment, alternative
prostaglandin dose or administration, or a different type of prostaglandin. We
included studies recruiting women with a viable fetus, but had no other
restrictions relating to indication for labour induction or language of
publication. Outcomes assessed were serious neonatal morbidity (trialist defined)
or perinatal death; serious maternal morbidity (trialist defined) or death;
vaginal delivery not achieved within 24 hours, caesarean section, and uterine
hyperstimulation with fetal heart rate changes.
RESULTS: 280 randomised clinical trials were included (48 068 women) in the
review. Maternal and neonatal mortality and serious morbidity were rarely
reported and are summarized narratively. Unresolved inconsistency was observed
for the hyperstimulation outcome. Relative to placebo, the odds of failing to
achieve a vaginal delivery were lowest for vaginal misoprostol (≥50 µg) (odds
ratio 0.06 (95% credible interval 0.02 to 0.12)), with a 39% absolute probability
of event (95% credible interval 1% to 94%). Compared with placebo, odds of
caesarean section were lowest for titrated oral misoprostol solution (<50 µg)
(odds ratio 0.65 (0.49 to 0.83)), with an absolute probability of event of 15%
(3% to 40%).
CONCLUSIONS: Low dose(<50 µg) titrated oral misoprostol solution had the lowest
probability of caesarean section, whereas vaginal misprostol (≥50 µg) had the
highest probability of achieving a vaginal delivery within 24 hours. These
findings have important implications for a series of current national and
international guidelines for induction of labour and future research in this
area.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO 2013:CRD42013005116.

© Alfirevic et al 2015.

PMID: 25656228  [PubMed - in process]


167. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Feb 5. pii: clincanres.2737.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

MGMT promoter methylation is a strong prognostic biomarker for benefit from
dose-intensified temozolomide rechallenge in progressive glioblastoma: the
DIRECTOR trial.

Weller M(1), Tabatabai G(2), Kästner B(3), Felsberg J(4), Steinbach JP(5), Wick
A(6), Schnell O(7), Hau P(8), Herrlinger U(9), Sabel MC(10), Wirsching HG(2),
Ketter R(11), Bähr O(12), Platten M(13), Tonn JC(14), Schlegel U(15), Marosi
C(16), Goldbrunner R(17), Stupp R(18), Homicsko K(19), Pichler J(20), Nikkhah
G(21), Meixensberger J(22), Vajkoczy P(23), Kollias S(24), Hüsing J(25),
Reifenberger G(26), Wick W(27).

Author information: 
(1)Neurologische Klinik, University Hospital Zurich michael.weller@usz.ch.
(2)Neurology, University Hospital Zurich. (3)Clinical Trial Center, University
Hospital Heidelberg. (4)Department of Neuropathology, Heinrich-Heine-University. 
(5)Dr. Senckenberg Institute of Neurooncology, Center of Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Goethe-University Hospital. (6)Neurooncology, University of
Heidelberg. (7)Klinik für Neurochirurgie, LMU München. (8)Neurology, University
of Regensburg. (9)Neurology, University of Bonn Medical School. (10)Neurosurgery,
University Hospital Düsseldorf. (11)Department of Neurosurgery, Saarland
University. (12)Dr. Senckenberg Institute of Neurooncology, Johann Wolfgang
Goethe-Universität Frankfurt am Main. (13)Neurology, University Hospital
Heidelberg. (14)Neurosurgery, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, München, Germany.
(15)Neurology, Knappschaftskrankenkenhaus, Ruhr-University of Bochum.
(16)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical University Vienna. (17)Neurosurgical
Department, University Clinic Cologne, Cologne, Germany. (18)Department of
Oncology and Cancer Center, University Hospital Zurich. (19)Neurosciences, Centre
Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois. (20)Department of Internal Medicine, Wagner
Jauregg Hospital. (21)Department of Stereotactic and Functional Neurosurgery,
University Hospital Freiburg - Neurocenter. (22)Neurosurgery, University Hospital
Leipzig. (23)Department of Neurosurgery, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin.
(24)Neuroradiology, University Hospital Zurich. (25)Clinical Trials Center,
University Hospital Heidelberg. (26)Neuropathology, University Hospital
Düsseldorf. (27)Neurology Clinic, University of Heidelberg.

Purpose Rechallenge with temozolomide (TMZ) at first progression of glioblastoma 
after temozolomide chemoradiotherapy (TMZ/RT→TMZ) has been studied in
retrospective and single-arm prospective studies, applying TMZ continuously or
using 7/14 or 21/28 days schedules. The DIRECTOR trial sought to show superiority
of the 7/14 regimen. Patients & Methods Patients with glioblastoma at first
progression after TMZ/RT→TMZ and at least 2 maintenance TMZ cycles were
randomized to Arm A (one week on (120 mg/m2 per day) / one week off) or Arm B
(three weeks on (80 mg/m2 per day) / one week off). The primary end point was
median time to treatment failure (TTF) defined as progression, premature TMZ
discontinuation for toxicity, or death from any cause. O6-methylguanine DNA
methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation was prospectively assessed by
methylation-specific PCR. Results Because of withdrawal of support, the trial was
prematurely closed to accrual after 105 patients. There was a similar outcome in 
both arms for median TTF (A: 1.8 months [95% CI 1.8-3.2] versus B: 2.0 months
[95% CI 1.8-3.5]) and overall survival (OS) (A: 9.8 months [95% CI 6.7-13.0]
versus B: 10.6 months [95% CI 8.1-11.6]). Median TTF in patients with
MGMT-methylated tumors was 3.2 months [95% CI 1.8-7.4] versus 1.8 months [95% CI 
1.8-2] in MGMT-unmethylated glioblastoma. Progression-free survival rates at six 
months (PFS-6) were 39.7% with versus 6.9% without MGMT promoter methylation.
Conclusions TMZ rechallenge is a treatment option for MGMT promoter-methylated
recurrent glioblastoma. Alternative strategies need to be considered for patients
with progressive glioblastoma without MGMT promoter methylation.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25655102  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


168. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 5;2:CD010107. [Epub ahead of print]

Single dose oral ibuprofen plus codeine for acute postoperative pain in adults.

Derry S(1), Karlin SM, Moore RA.

Author information: 
(1)Pain Research and Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences (Nuffield
Division of Anaesthetics), University of Oxford, Pain Research Unit, Churchill
Hospital, Oxford, Oxfordshire, UK, OX3 7LE.

BACKGROUND: This is an update of the original Cochrane review published in Issue 
3, 2013. There is good evidence that combining two different analgesics in fixed 
doses in a single tablet can provide better pain relief in acute pain and
headache than either drug alone, and that the drug-specific effects are
essentially additive. This appears to be broadly true in postoperative pain and
migraine headache across a range of different drug combinations and when tested
in the same and different trials. Some combinations of ibuprofen and codeine are 
available without prescription (but usually only from a pharmacy) where the dose 
of codeine is lower, and with a prescription when the dose of codeine is
higher.Use of combination analgesics that contain codeine has been a source of
some concern because of misuse from over-the-counter preparations.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the analgesic efficacy and adverse effects of a single oral
dose of ibuprofen plus codeine for acute moderate-to-severe postoperative pain
using methods that permit comparison with other analgesics evaluated in
standardised trials using almost identical methods and outcomes.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
(CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Oxford Pain Relief Database, ClinicalTrials.gov, 
and the reference lists of articles. The date of the most recent search was 1
December 2014.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised, double-blind, placebo- or active-controlled
clinical trials of single dose oral ibuprofen plus codeine for acute
postoperative pain in adults.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently considered trials 
for inclusion in the review, assessed risk of bias, and extracted data. We used
the area under the pain relief versus time curve to derive the proportion of
participants prescribed ibuprofen plus codeine, placebo, or the same dose of
ibuprofen alone with at least 50% pain relief over six hours, using validated
equations. We calculated the risk ratio (RR) and number needed to treat to
benefit (NNT). We used information on the use of rescue medication to calculate
the proportion of participants requiring rescue medication and the weighted mean 
of the median time to use. We also collected information on adverse effects.
Analyses were planned for different doses of ibuprofen and codeine, but
especially for codeine where we set criteria for low (< 10 mg), medium (10 to 20 
mg), and high (> 20 mg) doses.
MAIN RESULTS: Since the last version of this review no new studies were found.
Information was available from six studies with 1342 participants, using a
variety of doses of ibuprofen and codeine. In four studies (443 participants)
using ibuprofen 400 mg plus codeine 25.6 mg to 60 mg (high dose codeine) 64% of
participants had at least 50% maximum pain relief with the combination compared
to 18% with placebo. The NNT was 2.2 (95% confidence interval 1.8 to 2.6) (high
quality evidence). In three studies (204 participants) ibuprofen plus codeine
(any dose) was better than the same dose of ibuprofen (69% versus 55%) but the
result was barely significant with a relative benefit of 1.3 (1.01 to 1.6)
(moderate quality evidence). In two studies (159 participants) ibuprofen plus
codeine appeared to be better than the same dose of codeine alone (69% versus
33%), but no analysis was done. There was no difference between the combination
and placebo in the reporting of adverse events in these acute studies (moderate
quality evidence).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The combination of ibuprofen 400 mg plus codeine 25.6 mg to
60 mg demonstrates good analgesic efficacy. Very limited data suggest that the
combination is better than the same dose of either drug alone, and that similar
numbers of people experience adverse events with the combination as with placebo.

PMID: 25654769  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


169. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 5;2:CD000307. [Epub ahead of print]

Fluphenazine decanoate (depot) and enanthate for schizophrenia.

Maayan N(1), Quraishi SN, David A, Jayaswal A, Eisenbruch M, Rathbone J, Asher R,
Adams CE.

Author information: 
(1)Enhance Reviews Ltd, Central Office, Cobweb Buildings, The Lane, Lyford,
Wantage, UK, OX12 0EE.

BACKGROUND: Intramuscular injections (depot preparations) offer an advantage over
oral medication for treating schizophrenia by reducing poor compliance. The
benefits gained by long-acting preparations, however, may be offset by a higher
incidence of adverse effects.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of fluphenazine decanoate and enanthate versus 
oral anti-psychotics and other depot neuroleptic preparations for individuals
with schizophrenia in terms of clinical, social and economic outcomes.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's Trials Register
(February 2011 and October 16, 2013), which is based on regular searches of
CINAHL, BIOSIS, AMED, EMBASE, PubMed, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and registries of
clinical trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered all relevant randomised controlled trials
(RCTs) focusing on people with schizophrenia comparing fluphenazine decanoate or 
enanthate with placebo or oral anti-psychotics or other depot preparations.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We reliably selected, assessed the quality, and
extracted data of the included studies. For dichotomous data, we estimated risk
ratio (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Analysis was by
intention-to-treat. We used the mean difference (MD) for normal continuous data. 
We excluded continuous data if loss to follow-up was greater than 50%. Tests of
heterogeneity and for publication bias were undertaken. We used a fixed-effect
model for all analyses unless there was high heterogeneity. For this update. we
assessed risk of bias of included studies and used the GRADE (Grading of
Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) approach to create a
'Summary of findings' table.
MAIN RESULTS: This review now includes 73 randomised studies, with 4870
participants. Overall, the quality of the evidence is low to very low.Compared
with placebo, use of fluphenazine decanoate does not result in any significant
differences in death, nor does it reduce relapse over six months to one year, but
one longer-term study found that relapse was significantly reduced in the
fluphenazine arm (n = 54, 1 RCT, RR 0.35, CI 0.19 to 0.64, very low quality
evidence). A very similar number of people left the medium-term studies (six
months to one year) early in the fluphenazine decanoate (24%) and placebo (19%)
groups, however, a two-year study significantly favoured fluphenazine decanoate
(n = 54, 1 RCT, RR 0.47, CI 0.23 to 0.96, very low quality evidence). No
significant differences were found in mental state measured on the Brief
Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) or in extrapyramidal adverse effects, although
these outcomes were only reported in one small study each. No study comparing
fluphenazine decanoate with placebo reported clinically significant changes in
global state or hospital admissions.Fluphenazine decanoate does not reduce
relapse more than oral neuroleptics in the medium term (n = 419, 6 RCTs, RR 1.46 
CI 0.75 to 2.83, very low quality evidence). A small study found no difference in
clinically significant changes in global state. No difference in the number of
participants leaving the study early was found between fluphenazine decanoate
(17%) and oral neuroleptics (18%), and no significant differences were found in
mental state measured on the BPRS. Extrapyramidal adverse effects were
significantly less for people receiving fluphenazine decanoate compared with oral
neuroleptics (n = 259, 3 RCTs, RR 0.47 CI 0.24 to 0.91, very low quality
evidence). No study comparing fluphenazine decanoate with oral neuroleptics
reported death or hospital admissions.No significant difference in relapse rates 
in the medium term between fluphenazine decanoate and fluphenazine enanthate was 
found (n = 49, 1 RCT, RR 2.43, CI 0.71 to 8.32, very low quality evidence),
immediate- and short-term studies were also equivocal. One small study reported
the number of participants leaving the study early (29% versus 12%) and mental
state measured on the BPRS and found no significant difference for either
outcome. No significant difference was found in extrapyramidal adverse effects
between fluphenazine decanoate and fluphenazine enanthate. No study comparing
fluphenazine decanoate with fluphenazine enanthate reported death, clinically
significant changes in global state or hospital admissions.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There are more data for fluphenazine decanoate than for the
enanthate ester. Both are effective antipsychotic preparations. Fluphenazine
decanoate produced fewer movement disorder effects than other oral antipsychotics
but data were of low quality, and overall, adverse effect data were equivocal. In
the context of trials, there is little advantage of these depots over oral
medications in terms of compliance but this is unlikely to be applicable to
everyday clinical practice.

PMID: 25654768  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


170. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol. 2015 Feb 5. [Epub ahead of print]

The Use of Anti-CD40 mAb in Cancer.

Remer M(1), White A, Glennie M, Al-Shamkhani A, Johnson P.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Sciences Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton,
Southampton General Hospital, Southampton, SO16 6YD, UK, m.e.remer@soton.ac.uk.

Immunomodulatory monoclonal antibody (mAb) therapy is at the forefront of
developing cancer therapeutics with numerous targeted agents proving highly
effective in selective patients at stimulating protective host immunity, capable 
of eradicating established tumours and leading to long-term disease-free states. 
The cell surface marker CD40CD40 is expressed on a range of immune cells and
transformed cells in malignant states whose signalling plays a critical role in
modulating adaptive immune responses. Anti-CD40 mAbAnti-CD40 mAb therapy acts via
multiple mechanisms to stimulate anti-tumour immunity across a broad range of
lymphoid and solid malignancies. A wealth of preclinical research in this field
has led to the successful development of multiple anti-CD40 mAb agents that have 
shown promise in early-phase clinical trials. Significant progress has been made 
to enhance the engagement of antibodies with immune effectors through their
interactions with Fcγ receptors (FcγRs)Fcγ receptors (FcγRs) by the process of Fc
engineering. As more is understood about how to best optimise these agents,
principally through the fine-tuning of mAb structure and choice of synergistic
partnerships, our ability to generate robust, clinically beneficial anti-tumour
activity will form the foundation for the next generation of cancer therapeutics.

PMID: 25651948  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


171. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2015 Feb 5. doi: 10.1111/dom.12446. [Epub ahead of print]

Short-term administration of the glucagon receptor antagonist LY2409021 lowers
blood glucose in healthy subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes.

Kelly RP(1), Garhyan P, Raddad E, Fu H, Lim CN, Prince MJ, Pinaire JA, Loh MT,
Deeg MA.

Author information: 
(1)Lilly-NUS, Singapore.

AIM: This report describes the clinical effects (eg, safety, tolerability,
pharmacokinetics [PK], pharmacodynamics [PD]) of single and multiple doses of a
potent, selective, orally-administered, small-molecule antagonist of the human
glucagon receptor, LY2409021, in healthy subjects and patients with type 2
diabetes.
METHODS: LY2409021 was administered in dose-escalation studies to healthy
subjects (N = 23) and patients with type 2 diabetes (N = 9) as single doses
(Study 1) and daily to patients with type 2 diabetes (N = 47) for 28 days (Study 
2). Safety, tolerability, PK, and PD assessments were made after single doses and
in patients receiving once-daily doses of LY2409021 (5, 30, 60, or 90 mg) for 28 
days.
RESULTS: LY2409021 was well tolerated at all dose levels in both studies. Fasting
and postprandial glucose were reduced and glucagon levels increased after single 
and multiple dosing, with reductions in fasting serum glucose of up to
approximately 1.25 mmol/L on day 28. Serum aminotransferases increased in a
dose-dependent manner with multiple dosing and reversed after cessation of
dosing. Significant glucose lowering was observed with LY2409021 at dose levels
associated with only minor aminotransferase increases.
CONCLUSION: Blockade of glucagon signaling in patients with type 2 diabetes is
well tolerated and results in substantial reduction of fasting and postprandial
glucose with minimal hypoglycemia, but with reversible increases in
aminotransferases. Inhibition of glucagon signaling by LY2409021 is a promising
potential treatment for patients with type 2 diabetes and should be evaluated in 
longer clinical trials to better evaluate benefits and risks. Clinical trial
numbers: NCT01606371 (Study 1) NCT01606397 (Study 2).

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25656305  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


172. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2015 Feb 5:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeting EGFR-PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling enhances radiosensitivity in head and neck
squamous cell carcinoma.

Horn D(1), Hess J, Freier K, Hoffmann J, Freudlsperger C.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital Heidelberg, Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery ,
Im Neuenheimer Feld 400, 69120 Heidelberg , Germany +49 0 6221 56 38462 ; +49 0
6221 56 4222 ; chr.freudlsperger@med.uni-heidelberg.de.

Introduction: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is frequently
characterized by high resistance to radiotherapy, which critically depends on
both altered signaling pathways within tumor cells and their dynamic interaction 
with the tumor microenvironment. Areas covered: This review covers
EGFR-phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT)-mechanistic target
of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling in HNSCC. The role of each pathway node in
radioresistance is discussed. Preclinical and clinical innovative aspects of
targeting EGFR-PI3K-AKT and mTOR are demonstrated. Ongoing clinical trials and
future perspectives are presented. Expert opinion: Different cellular signaling
pathways seem to mediate radioresistance in advanced HNSCC and various molecular 
targeted therapies are currently being investigated to sensitize tumor cells to
radiotherapy. Recently, new insights in the mutational landscape of HNSCC
unraveled critical alterations in putative oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes
and have emphasized the importance of PI3K and the corresponding upstream and
downstream signaling pathways in pathogenesis and treatment response. The
frequent activation of the EGFR-PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway in HNSCC and its
implication in the context of radiosensitivity make this pathway one of the most 
promising targets in the therapy of HNSCC patients. Clinical studies targeting
EGFR and mTOR in combination with radiotherapy are under investigation.

PMID: 25652792  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


173. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2015 Feb 5:1-13. [Epub ahead of print]

Emerging drugs for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

Mondello P(1), Younes A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Pathology, University of Messina, Via C. Valeria, 98100
Messina, Italy.

Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most frequent non-Hodgkin lymphoma
in western countries. Despite the addition of rituximab to chemotherapy, the
prognosis is still poor and almost one-third of patients fail or relapse after
first-line treatment. Gene expression profiling has identified three main
signatures related to subgroups with different biological characteristics and
responses to treatment. Novel agents targeting the oncogenic drivers of these
subsets are currently under investigation with the aim of providing a tailored
approach and avoiding unnecessary toxicity. Herein, we review the emerging
therapies for DLBCL with a focus on preclinical and early clinical trials as well
as future directions.

PMID: 25652253  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


174. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2015 Feb 5:1-15. [Epub ahead of print]

Allogeneic cardiac stem cell administration for acute myocardial infarction.

Crisostomo V(1), Casado JG, Baez-Diaz C, Blazquez R, Sanchez-Margallo FM.

Author information: 
(1)Jesús Usón Minimally Invasive Surgery Centre, Carretera N-521, km 41.8, 10071 
- Cáceres, Spain.

Myocardial infarction, even after reperfusion, leads to significant loss of
cardiomyocytes and to a maladaptive remodeling process. A possibility gaining
attention as an ancillary therapy is the use of cardiac-derived cell products,
with early stage clinical trials reporting highly promising results with
autologous cells. However, an autologous therapy presents limitations, such as
timeframe of therapy, cell processing and culture costs, risks posed to the
patient by the tissue harvesting, etc. Allogeneic cells may represent an answer, 
providing an off-the-shelf product that could be used in the acute stage, before 
the myocardial damage is irrevocable. To date, allogeneic cardiac-derived cell
products are being tested extensively, but the questions of their immunogenicity 
(and therefore safety), efficacy, cost-effectiveness, etc. are only partially
elucidated. Small Phase I/II clinical trials (ALLSTAR, CAREMI) have started and
their results will shed the much needed light on the feasibility and safety of a 
much needed therapy.

PMID: 25653187  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


175. FASEB J. 2015 Feb 5. pii: fj.14-269043. [Epub ahead of print]

Translating dosages from animal models to human clinical trials-revisiting body
surface area scaling.

Blanchard OL(1), Smoliga JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)*Wilmore Labs Limited Liability Company, San Antonio, Texas, USA; and
Department of Physical Therapy, School of Health Sciences, and Department of
Basic Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, High Point University, High
Point, North Carolina, USA. (2)*Wilmore Labs Limited Liability Company, San
Antonio, Texas, USA; and Department of Physical Therapy, School of Health
Sciences, and Department of Basic Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy,
High Point University, High Point, North Carolina, USA jsmoliga@highpoint.edu.

Body surface area (BSA) scaling has been used for prescribing individualized
dosages of various drugs and has also been recommended by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration as one method for using data from animal model species to
establish safe starting dosages for first-in-human clinical trials. Although BSA 
conversion equations have been used in certain clinical applications for decades,
recent recommendations to use BSA to derive interspecies equivalents for
therapeutic dosages of drug and natural products are inappropriate. A thorough
review of the literature reveals that BSA conversions are based on antiquated
science and have little justification in current translational medicine compared 
to more advanced allometric and physiologically based pharmacokinetic modeling.
Misunderstood and misinterpreted use of BSA conversions may have disastrous
consequences, including underdosing leading to abandonment of potentially
efficacious investigational drugs, and unexpected deadly adverse events. We aim
to demonstrate that recent recommendations for BSA are not appropriate for
animal-to-human dosage conversions and use pharmacokinetic data from resveratrol 
studies to demonstrate how confusion between the "human equivalent dose" and
"pharmacologically active dose" can lead to inappropriate dose recommendations.
To optimize drug development, future recommendations for interspecies scaling
must be scientifically justified using physiologic, pharmacokinetic, and
toxicology data rather than simple BSA conversion.-Blanchard, O. L., Smoliga, J. 
M. Translating dosages from animal models to human clinical trials-revisiting
body surface area scaling.

© FASEB.

PMID: 25657112  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


176. Hum Gene Ther. 2015 Feb 5. [Epub ahead of print]

Perspectives on Best Practices for Gene Therapy Programs.

Cheever TR(1), Berkley D, Braun S, Brown R, Byrne BJ, Chamberlain J, Cwik V, Duan
D, Federoff HJ, High KA, Kaspar BK, Klinger KW, Larkindale J, Lincecum J, Mavilio
F, McDonald CL, McLaughlin J, Weiss McLeod B, Mendell JR, Nuckolls G, Stedman HH,
Tagle DA, Vandenberghe LH, Wang H, Wernett PJ, Wilson JM, Porter JD, Gubitz AK.

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke, Bethesda, Maryland, United States ; cheevertr@ninds.nih.gov.

With recent successes in gene therapy trials for hemophilia and retinal diseases,
the promise and prospects for gene therapy are once again garnering significant
attention. To build on this momentum, the National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and the Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA) jointly
hosted a workshop in April of 2014 on "Best Practices for Gene Therapy Programs,"
with a focus on neuromuscular disorders. Workshop participants included
researchers from academia and industry as well as representatives from the
regulatory, legal, and patient advocacy sectors to cover the gamut from
preclinical optimization to intellectual property concerns and regulatory
approval. The workshop focused on three key issues in the field: 1) Establishing 
adequate scientific premise for clinical trials in gene therapy, 2) Addressing
regulatory process issues, and 3) IP and commercialization issues as they relate 
to gene therapy. The outcomes from the discussions at this workshop are intended 
to provide guidance for researchers and funders in the gene therapy field.

PMID: 25654329  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


177. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Feb 5. pii: IOVS-14-15841. doi:
10.1167/iovs.14-15841. [Epub ahead of print]

Risk Prediction for Progression of Macular Degeneration: 10 Common and Rare
Genetic Variants, Demographic, Environmental, and Macular Covariates.

Seddon JM(1), Silver RE(2), Kwong M(3), Rosner B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tufts Medical Center, Ophthalmic Epidemiology and
Genetics Service, 800 Washington St. #450, Boston, Massachusetts, 02111, United
States jseddon@tuftsmedicalcenter.org. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Tufts
Medical Center, Ophthalmic Epidemiology and Genetics Service, 800 Washington St. 
#450, Boston, Massachusetts, 02111, United States. (3)Institute for Clinical
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, 
02111, United States. (4)Channing Laboratory, Boston, Massachusetts, United
States.

Purpose To determine the association between genetic variants and transition to
advanced age-related macular degeneration (AMD), and to develop a predictive
model and online application to assist in clinical decision making. Methods Among
2951 subjects in the Age-Related Eye Disease Study, 834 progressed from no AMD,
early and intermediate AMD to advanced disease. Survival analysis was used to
assess which genetic, demographic, environmental, and macular covariates were
independently associated with progression. Attributable risk (AR), area under the
curve statistics (AUCs), and reclassification odds ratios (ORs) were calculated. 
Split-sample validation was performed. An online risk calculator was developed
and is available at www.seddonamdriskscore.org. Results Ten genetic loci were
independently associated with progression, including newly identified rare
variant C3 K155Q (hazard ratio: 1.7, 95% confidence interval: 1.2-2.5, p=0.002), 
3 variants in CFH, and 6 variants in ARMS2/HTRA1, CFB, C3, C2, COL8A1 and RAD51B.
AR calculations revealed that 80% of incident AMD is attributable to genetic
factors, adjusting for demographic covariates and baseline macular phenotypes. In
a model including 10 genetic loci, age, sex, education, BMI, smoking, and
baseline AMD status, the AUC for progression to advanced AMD over 10 years was
91.1%. Split-sample validation showed a similar AUC (90.7%). Reclassification
analyses indicated that subjects were categorized into a more accurate risk
category if genetic information was included (OR: 3.2, p <0.0001). Conclusion
Rare variant C3 K155Q was independently associated with AMD progression. The
comprehensive model may be useful for identifying and monitoring high risk
patients, selecting appropriate therapies, and designing clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015 by Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology.

PMID: 25655794  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


178. J Atten Disord. 2015 Feb 5. pii: 1087054715569280. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatments for Adolescents With Comorbid ADHD and Substance Use Disorder: A
Systematic Review.

Zaso MJ(1), Park A(2), Antshel KM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Syracuse University, NY, USA. (2)Syracuse University, NY, USA aepark@syr.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Comorbid ADHD and substance use disorder (SUD) presents frequently in 
adolescence, a developmental period that may promote the emergence of substance
misuse among individuals with ADHD. Comorbid ADHD and SUD in adolescence results 
in significant and unique treatment challenges, necessitating examination into
effective interventions.
METHOD: This systematic review examined existing research into the treatment of
comorbid adolescent ADHD and SUD.
RESULTS: Findings from a small number of pharmacological intervention studies
suggest potential efficacy of extended-release stimulant and nonstimulant
medications. Efficacy of psychotherapeutic interventions has not been
systematically examined.
CONCLUSION: Current research on treatments for comorbid ADHD and SUD in
adolescence is limited. Future placebo-controlled clinical trials using large
samples are needed to examine the efficacy of psychotherapeutic interventions,
the heightened risk of prescription stimulant misuse, and the long-term
maintenance of treatment gains in this population. Clinical guidelines for the
treatment of comorbid ADHD and SUD are discussed.

© 2015 SAGE Publications.

PMID: 25655767  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


179. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2015 Feb 5. [Epub ahead of print]

A Critical Evaluation of the Representation of Black Patients With Heart Failure 
Preserved Ejection Fraction in Clinical Trials: A Literature Review.

Lekavich CL(1), Barksdale DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Carolyn L. Lekavich, MSN, MHS-CL, ANP-C PhD Candidate, School of Nursing,
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Debra J. Barksdale, PhD, FNP-BC,
FAANP, FAAN Professor, School of Nursing, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill.

BACKGROUND:: In the United States, heart failure costs $34.4 billion annually and
is associated with a mortality rate of 20% within 5 years of diagnosis. Heart
failure preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) accounts for 50% of all hospital
admissions for heart failure. Black patients develop HFpEF at a significantly
earlier age than do white patients, and the 5-year mortality rate for blacks with
HFpEF is 30% to 44% higher compared with white patients. Current trials may not
represent black patients proportionately to the general population.
OBJECTIVE:: The primary aim of this literature review was to critically evaluate 
the representation of black patients in HFpEF trials and propose solutions for
future research.
METHODS:: PubMed and CINAHL were queried for peer-reviewed journal articles from 
1997 to 2014 using 2 sets of search terms that included HFpEF or preserved left
ventricular function and all relevant search terms for black patients. Initially,
182 articles were identified; however, after exclusionary criteria were applied, 
22 articles remained. After critical review of each article for relevance, a
total of 9 articles remained for the review.
RESULTS:: For the 9 trials reviewed including a total of 63,065 patients with
HFpEF, 10,436 (17%) of the patients were black. Three of the 9 trials included
less than 10% black patients, 4 trials included 10% to 20% black patients, and 2 
trials included greater than 20% black patients. In 2 studies, the percentage of 
black patients in the HFpEF trial (13% and 17%) was significantly less than the
percentage of black patients in the general regional population (53% and 39%),
respectively.
DISCUSSION:: Although the mortality rate for black patients with HFpEF is 30% to 
45% higher than the rate for white patients, 2 of the 9 studies did not have a
representative sample of the general HFpEF population and none of the studies
reported the objective of establishing a representative study population.

PMID: 25658183  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


180. J Control Release. 2015 Feb 5. pii: S0168-3659(15)00096-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.02.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Polymeric nanoparticles for co-delivery of synthetic long peptide antigen and
poly IC as therapeutic cancer vaccine formulation.

Rahimian S(1), Fransen MF(2), Kleinovink JW(2), Christensen JR(1), Amidi M(1),
Hennink WE(1), Ossendorp F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands. (2)Department of Immunohematology
and Blood Transfusion, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion, Leiden University
Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands. Electronic address:
F.A.Ossendorp@lumc.nl.

The aim of the current study was to develop a cancer vaccine formulation for
treatment of human papillomavirus (HPV)-induced malignancies. Synthetic long
peptides (SLPs) derived from HPV16 E6 and E7 oncoproteins have been used for
therapeutic vaccination in clinical trials with promising results. In preclinical
and clinical studies adjuvants based on mineral oils (such as incomplete Freund's
adjuvant (IFA) and Montanide) are used to create a sustained release depot at the
injection site. While the depot effect of mineral oils is important for induction
of robust immune responses, their administration is accompanied with severe
adverse and long lasting side effects. In order to develop an alternative for IFA
family of adjuvants, polymeric nanoparticles (NPs) based on hydrophilic polyester
(poly(d,l lactic-co-hydroxymethyl glycolic acid) (pLHMGA)) were prepared. These
NPs were loaded with a synthetic long peptide (SLP) derived from HPV16 E7
oncoprotein and a Toll like receptor 3 (TLR3) ligand (poly IC) by double emulsion
solvent evaporation technique. The therapeutic efficacy of the nanoparticulate
formulations was compared to that of HPV SLP+poly IC formulated in incomplete
Freund's adjuvant (IFA). Encapsulation of HPV SLP antigen in NPs substantially
enhanced the population of HPV-specific CD8+ T cells when combined with poly IC
either co-encapsulated with the antigen or in its soluble form. The therapeutic
efficacy of NPs containing poly IC in tumor eradication was equivalent to that of
the IFA formulation. Importantly, administration of pLHMGA nanoparticles was not 
associated with adverse effects and therefore these biodegradable nanoparticles
are excellent substitutes for IFA in cancer vaccines.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25660830  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


181. J Infect Dis. 2015 Feb 5. pii: jiv073. [Epub ahead of print]

Staphylococcus aureus infection in Humanized Mice: a new model to study
pathogenicity associated with human immune response.

Knop J(1), Hanses F(2), Leist T(1), Archin NM(3), Buchholz S(1), Gläsner J(4),
Gessner A(4), Wege AK(5).

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center Regensburg, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics,
Regensburg, Germany. (2)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital
Regensburg, Germany. (3)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, USA. (4)Institute for Medical Micobiology and Hygiene, University of
Regensburg, Germany. (5)University Medical Center Regensburg, Department of
Gynecology and Obstetrics, Regensburg, Germany
Anja.Wege@klinik.uni-regensburg.de.

BACKGROUND:  S. aureus is a common pathogen causing infections in humans
worldwide with an increasing prevalence of multidrug resistance. The
understanding of virulence factors inducing pathogenicity is still incomplete and
thus far, the transfer of results from animal studies into successful clinical
trials has been difficult.
METHODS:  In this study we established an S. aureus infection model in mice
engrafted with a human immune system, compared it with infected wild type and
non-humanized mice and investigated pathogenesis in these models.
RESULTS:  S. aureus infection was aggravated in humanized mice (HM) compared to
wild type or non- engrafted mice. The HM displayed significantly reduced
survival, increased weight loss and accelerated bacterial burden. In addition, S.
aureus infection induced T cell activation, apoptosis and FAS receptor expression
in humanized but not in wild type mice.
CONCLUSION:  Our findings demonstrate the different pathogenetic mechanisms in
wild type and humanized mice and discuss the possible benefit of including
humanized mice in future studies involving S. aureus as a prior step to human
clinical trials.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25657257  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


182. J Infect Dis. 2015 Feb 5. pii: jiv065. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeting filarial Abl-like kinases: orally available, FDA-approved tyrosine
kinase inhibitors are micro- and macrofilaricidal.

O'Connell EM(1), Bennuru S(1), Steel C(1), Dolan MA(2), Nutman TB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health. (2)Bioinformatics and Computational
Biosciences Branch, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health.

BACKGROUND:  Elimination of onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis is targeted
for 2020. Given the co-incident Loa loa infections in Central Africa and the
potential for drug resistance development, the need for new micro- and
macrofilaricides has never been greater. With the genomes of L. loa, O. volvulus,
W. bancrofti, and B. malayi available, new drug targets have been identified.
METHODS:  The effects of the tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) imatinib,
nilotinib, and dasatinib on B. malayi (Bm) adult males, adult females, L3 and
microfilariae (MF) were assessed using a wide dose range (0-100 µM) in vitro.
RESULTS:  Day 6 IC50s for Bm MF were 6.06 µM(imatinib), 3.72 µM (dasatinib), and 
81.35 µM (nilotinib). Bm L3 IC50s were 11.27 µM (imatinib), 13.64 µM (dasatinib),
and 70.98 µM (nilotinib). Adult male Bm IC50s were 41.6 µM (imatinib), 9.8 µM
(dasatinib), and 68.22 µM (nilotinib). Adult female IC50s were 42.89 µM
(imatinib), 9.8 µM (dasatinib), and >100 µM (nilotinib). Three-dimensional
modeling suggests how these TKIs bind and inhibit filarial protein activity.
CONCLUSIONS:  Given the safety of imatinib in humans, plans are underway to
assess its efficacy in patients with filarial infections in pilot clinical
trials.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Infectious Diseases Society
of America 2015. This work is written by (a) US Government employee(s) and is in 
the public domain in the US.

PMID: 25657255  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


183. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2015 Feb 5. pii: S2213-8587(14)70256-6. doi:
10.1016/S2213-8587(14)70256-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of RAS inhibitors on diabetic retinopathy: a systematic review and
meta-analysis.

Wang B(1), Wang F(1), Zhang Y(2), Zhao SH(1), Zhao WJ(1), Yan SL(1), Wang YG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, the Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University,
Qingdao, China. (2)Department of Pathology, Shanghai University of Chinese
Medicine, Shanghai, China. (3)Department of Endocrinology, the Affiliated
Hospital of Qingdao University, Qingdao, China. Electronic address:
nlwang@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Results of several studies have shown a possible beneficial effect of
renin-angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitors on diabetic retinopathy, but the
findings were contradictory. We did a systematic review and meta-analysis to
assess the effect of RAS inhibitors on diabetic retinopathy.
METHODS: We identified relevant publications in PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library 
Central Register of Controlled Trials, and abstracts from main annual meetings.
Only randomised controlled trials comparing angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)
inhibitor or angiotensin-receptor blocker (ARB) monotherapy with other
antihypertensive drugs or placebo in type 1 or type 2 diabetes were eligible for 
inclusion in the analysis. The primary outcomes were progression and regression
of diabetic retinopathy in all patients and several subgroups. Risk ratios (RRs) 
with corresponding 95% CIs were pooled. We also did a network meta-analysis to
assess the effect of different antihypertensive drugs on diabetic retinopathy by 
ranking order. This study is registered with the International Prospective
Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO), number CRD42013004548.
FINDINGS: 21 randomised clinical trials with 13 823 participants were included in
the meta-analysis. RAS inhibitors were associated with reduced risk of
progression (absolute risk difference -3%, 95% CI -5 to -1; pooled RR 0·87, 95%
CI 0·80-0·95; p=0·002) and increased possibility of regression of diabetic
retinopathy (8%, 1-16; RR 1·39, 95% CI 1·19-1·61; p=0·00002). In normotensive
patients, RAS inhibitors decreased risk of diabetic retinopathy progression
(0·81, 0·69-0·94; p=0·007) and increased possibility of regression (1·43,
1·14-1·79; p=0·002). In hypertensive patients, RAS inhibitors were not associated
with difference in risk of progression of diabetic retinopathy (0·93, 0·79-1·10; 
p=0·42) or possibility of diabetic retinopathy regression (2·21, 0·92-5·31;
p=0·08). ACE inhibitors were associated with reduced risk of diabetic retinopathy
progression (0·84, 0·75-0·94; p=0·002) and higher possibility of disease
regression (1·50, 1·20-1·86; p=0·0003). ARBs were associated with a higher
possibility of diabetic retinopathy regression (1·32, 1·07-1·61; p=0·008), but
had no effect on disease progression (0·92, 0·80-1·06; p=0·25). Network
meta-analysis showed the association of antihypertensive drugs with risk of
diabetic retinopathy progression was lowest for ACE inhibitors, followed by ARBs,
β blockers, calcium channel blockers, and placebo in rank order. The association 
of antihypertensive drugs with possibility of diabetic retinopathy regression was
highest for ACE inhibitors, followed by ARBs, placebo, and calcium channel
blockers in rank order.
INTERPRETATION: In patients with diabetes, RAS inhibitors reduce the risk of
diabetic retinopathy, and increase the possibility of diabetic retinopathy
regression. ACE inhibitors might be better than ARBs for treating diabetic
retinopathy, and might exert the most beneficial effect on diabetic retinopathy
of all widely used antihypertensive drug classes.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25660574  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


184. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015 Feb 5. pii: gfv002. [Epub ahead of print]

Disease assessment in systemic vasculitis.

Luqmani RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)NIHR Oxford Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit, University of Oxford,
Oxford, Oxfordshire, UK.

The anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitides are complex
multi-system disorders with many overlapping clinical features. Their outcome has
been transformed by effective immunosuppression, preventing death in over 70% of 
cases. The quality of survival is affected by the disease course, which is
characterized by a significant likelihood of relapse in 38%, chronic effects from
the disease and its treatment, as well as emerging or worsening comorbidity, all 
of which contribute to the patient's clinical condition and outcome. Whilst
imaging and laboratory testing including histology are important aspects of
diagnosis, they are of limited value in assessing response to therapy or
subsequent disease course. We have developed standardized validated clinical
methods to quantify disease activity and damage; we are developing effective
measures of patient experience to complement these procedures. This approach
provides a rational basis for clinical management as well as being essential in
the conduct of clinical trials and studies in vasculitis, by providing
reproducible definitions of relapse, remission and response to therapy for
patients with systemic vasculitis. Clinical assessment remains the current gold
standard for evaluating disease progress, but requires regular training to ensure
standardization. The development of biomarkers in future may produce a more
accurate description of disease and identify potential targets for therapy as
well as predictors of response to drugs.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of ERA-EDTA.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25662796  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


185. Neuromodulation. 2015 Feb 5. doi: 10.1111/ner.12270. [Epub ahead of print]

Ziconotide Combination Intrathecal Therapy for Noncancer Pain Is Limited
Secondary to Delayed Adverse Effects: A Case Series With a 24-Month Follow-Up.

Hayek SM(1), Hanes MC, Wang C, Veizi IE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Division of Pain Medicine, University Hospitals 
Case Medical Center, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The efficacy and safety of ziconotide as a single agent has been
evaluated in few short-term clinical trials and open-label studies. Ziconotide
use is challenging given its adverse effect (AE) profile. The objective of this
study is to describe the long-term efficacy and AEs of ziconotide used as an
adjunct to other intrathecal (IT) agents in chronic noncancer pain patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A case series of chronic noncancer pain patients who had
suboptimal pain control from IT therapy. Ziconotide was introduced in the IT
infusion mixture after a successful ziconotide trial. Pain scores, IT doses, as
well as AEs were recorded and analyzed from trial to initial ziconotide infusion 
and up to 24 months.
RESULTS: Fifteen patients underwent ziconotide trials. Four subjects failed the
trial, and 11 proceeded to continuous ziconotide treatment. Seven out of 11
patients experienced AEs resulting in ziconotide discontinuation. Two of the
seven subjects who required discontinuation of ziconotide had improved pain. Four
subjects were able to continue IT ziconotide through 24 months.
CONCLUSIONS: A high incidence of AEs limits the usefulness of IT ziconotide as
adjunct therapy. Our results are limited by the size of our patient population;
however, they represent a long follow-up period, which is limited in most current
publications on this IT peptide. While ziconotide is a needed IT agent, more
studies are necessary to better understand the factors that would improve the
treatment to trial ratio as well as the long-term efficacy of IT ziconotide
treatment.

© 2015 International Neuromodulation Society.

PMID: 25655991  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


186. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2015 Feb 5. doi: 10.1002/pds.3760. [Epub ahead of
print]

Results from a 9-year Intensive Safety Surveillance Scheme (IS(3) ) in miglustat 
(Zavesca(®) )-treated patients.

Brand M(1), Muller A, Alsop J, van Schaik IN, Bembi B, Hughes D.

Author information: 
(1)Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Allschwil, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Following approval in the EU in 2002 and the USA in 2003, an
Intensive Safety Surveillance Scheme (IS(3) ) was initiated to educate
prescribers on the appropriate use of miglustat for the treatment of type I
Gaucher disease (GD1), and to actively solicit safety-relevant information. This 
report summarises data from all patients enrolled in IS(3) between its initiation
in 2003 and its closure in October 2012.
METHODS: The IS(3) was a prospective observational drug registry with a secure
internet-based data capture system. All patients receiving miglustat at
participating sites received standard medical care according to routine medical
practice. Data on patient and disease characteristics were collected at patient
enrolment, subsequent follow-up visits and treatment discontinuation (if
applicable). Data were summarised using descriptive statistics.
RESULTS: During the 9 years of IS(3) , 407 patients were enrolled at 111 sites
across 15 European countries. Approximately half (n = 202) had GD1, and half had 
other diseases (mainly Niemann-Pick disease type C (NP-C), for which miglustat
was approved in Europe in 2009). In total, 368 patients had data from at least
one follow-up visit, 192 of whom had GD1. IS(3) provided data from 798
patient-years exposure to miglustat. Safety-relevant data were consistent with
earlier published 5-year findings from IS(3) , the safety profile reported for
miglustat in GD1 clinical trials and other published information on GD1
manifestations.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the results of this long-term safety surveillance programme
were in line with the well-known, documented safety profile of miglustat.
Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25656910  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


187. Aging Cell. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1111/acel.12313. [Epub ahead of print]

Rapamycin-mediated mTORC2 inhibition is determined by the relative expression of 
FK506-binding proteins.

Schreiber KH(1), Ortiz D, Academia EC, Anies AC, Liao CY, Kennedy BK.

Author information: 
(1)The Buck Institute for Research on Aging, 8001 Redwood Blvd., Novato, CA,
94945, USA.

The mechanism by which the drug rapamycin inhibits the mechanistic target of
rapamycin (mTOR) is of intense interest because of its likely relevance in cancer
biology, aging, and other age-related diseases. While rapamycin acutely and
directly inhibits mTORC1, only chronic administration of rapamycin can inhibit
mTORC2 in some, but not all, cell lines or tissues. The mechanism leading to cell
specificity of mTORC2 inhibition by rapamycin is not understood and is especially
important because many of the negative metabolic side effects of rapamycin,
reported in mouse studies and human clinical trials, have been attributed
recently to mTORC2 inhibition. Here, we identify the expression level of
different FK506-binding proteins (FKBPs), primarily FKBP12 and FKBP51, as the key
determinants for rapamycin-mediated inhibition of mTORC2. In support, enforced
reduction of FKBP12 completely converts a cell line that is sensitive to mTORC2
inhibition to an insensitive cell line, and increased expression can enhance
mTORC2 inhibition. Further reduction of FKBP12 in cell lines with already low
FKBP12 levels completely blocks mTORC1 inhibition by rapamycin, indicating that
relative FKBP12 levels are critical for both mTORC1 and mTORC2 inhibition, but at
different levels. In contrast, reduction of FKBP51 renders cells more sensitive
to mTORC2 inhibition. Our findings reveal that the expression of FKBP12 and
FKBP51 is the rate limiting factor that determines the responsiveness of a cell
line or tissue to rapamycin. These findings have implications for treating
specific diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer, as well as targeting
aging in general.

© 2015 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley
& Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25652038  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


188. Arch Pharm Res. 2015 Feb 4. [Epub ahead of print]

IL-6 inhibitors for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis: past, present, and future.

Kim GW(1), Lee NR, Pi RH, Lim YS, Lee YM, Lee JM, Jeong HS, Chung SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Kyung
Hee University, Seoul, 130-701, Republic of Korea.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by
polyarthritis. Numerous agents with varying mechanisms are used in the treatment 
of RA, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, disease-modifying
anti-rheumatic drugs, and some biological agents. Studies to uncover the cause of
RA have recently ended up scrutinizing the importance of pro-inflammatory
cytokine such as tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and interleukin (IL)-6 in the
pathogenesis of RA. TNF-α inhibitors are increasingly used to treat RA patients
who are non-responsive to conventional anti-arthritis drugs. Despite its
effectiveness in a large patient population, up to two thirds of RA patients are 
found to be partially responsive to anti-TNF therapy. Therefore, agents targeting
IL-6 such as tocilizumab (TCZ) attracted significant attention as a promising
agent in RA treatment. In this article, we review the mechanism of anti-IL-6 in
the treatment of RA, provide the key efficacy and safety data from clinical
trials of approved anti-IL-6, TCZ, as well as six candidate IL-6 blockers
including sarilumab, ALX-0061, sirukumab, MEDI5117, clazakizumab, and olokizumab,
and their future perspectives in the treatment of RA.

PMID: 25648633  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


189. BMJ Open. 2015 Feb 4;5(2):e007031. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-007031.

Electroacupuncture as a complement to usual care for patients with non-acute pain
after back surgery: a study protocol for a pilot randomised controlled trial.

Hwang MS(1), Heo KH(2), Cho HW(3), Shin BC(4), Lee HY(1), Heo I(1), Kim NK(5),
Choi BK(6), Son DW(7), Hwang EH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of Korean Medicine, Pusan National
University Korean Medicine Hospital, Yangsan, South Korea Department of Korean
Medical Science, School of Korean Medicine, Pusan National University, Yangsan,
South Korea. (2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of Korean Medicine, Pusan
National University Korean Medicine Hospital, Yangsan, South Korea. (3)Department
of Korean Medical Science, School of Korean Medicine, Pusan National University, 
Yangsan, South Korea. (4)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of Korean
Medicine, Pusan National University Korean Medicine Hospital, Yangsan, South
Korea Division of Clinical Medicine, School of Korean Medicine, Pusan National
University, Yangsan, South Korea. (5)Department of Ophthalmology & Otolaryngology
and Dermatology, School of Korean Medicine, Pusan National University, Yangsan,
South Korea. (6)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical Research Institute, Pusan
National University Hospital, Busan, South Korea. (7)Department of Neurosurgery, 
Yangsan Pusan National University Hospital, Yangsan, South Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Recurrent or persistent low back pain is common after back surgery 
but is typically not well controlled. Previous randomised controlled trials on
non-acute pain after back surgery were flawed. In this article, the design and
protocol of a randomised controlled trial to treat pain and improve function
after back surgery are described.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This study is a pilot randomised, active-controlled,
assessor-blinded trial. Patients with recurring or persistent low back pain after
back surgery, defined as a visual analogue scale value of ≥50 mm, with or without
leg pain, will be randomly assigned to an electroacupuncture-plus-usual-care
group or to a usual-care-only group. Patients assigned to both groups will have
usual care management, including physical therapy and patient education, twice a 
week during a 4-week treatment period that would begin at randomisation. Patients
assigned to the electroacupuncture-plus-usual-care group will also have
electroacupuncture twice a week during the 4-week treatment period. The primary
outcome will be measured with the 100 mm pain visual analogue scale of low back
pain by a blinded evaluator. Secondary outcomes will be measured with the EuroQol
5-Dimension and the Oswestry Disability Index. The primary and secondary outcomes
will be measured at 4 and 8 weeks after treatment.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Written informed consent will be obtained from all
participants. This study was approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of 
Pusan National University Korean Hospital in September 2013 (IRB approval number 
2013012). The study findings will be published in peer-reviewed journals and
presented at national and international conferences.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: This trial was registered with the US National
Institutes of Health Clinical Trials Registry: NCT01966250.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25652804  [PubMed - in process]


190. Br J Anaesth. 2015 Feb 4. pii: aeu446. [Epub ahead of print]

A Bayesian network meta-analysis on the effect of inodilatory agents on
mortality.

Greco T(1), Calabrò MG(1), Covello RD(1), Greco M(1), Pasin L(1), Morelli A(2),
Landoni G(3), Zangrillo A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, IRCCS San Raffaele
Scientific Institute, Via Olgettina 60, Milan 20132, Italy. (2)Department of
Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, La Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, IRCCS San Raffaele
Scientific Institute, Via Olgettina 60, Milan 20132, Italy
landoni.giovanni@hsr.it.

BACKGROUND: Inodilators are commonly used in critically ill patients, but their
effect on survival has not been properly studied to date. The objective of this
work was to conduct a network meta-analysis on the effects of inodilators on
survival in adult cardiac surgery patients, and to compare and rank drugs that
have not been adequately compared in head-to-head trials.
METHODS: Relevant studies were independently searched in BioMedCentral,
MEDLINE/PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of clinical trials
(updated on May 1, 2014). The criteria for inclusion were: random allocation to
treatment with at least one group receiving dobutamine, enoximone, levosimendan, 
or milrinone and at least another group receiving the above inodilators or
placebo, performed in cardiac surgical patients. The endpoint was to identify
differences in mortality at longest follow-up available.
RESULTS: The 46 included trials were published between 1995 and 2014 and
randomised 2647 patients. The Bayesian network meta-analysis found that only the 
use of levosimendan was associated with a decrease in mortality when compared
with placebo (posterior mean of OR=0.48, 95% CrI 0.28 to 0.80). The posterior
distribution of the probability for each inodilator to be the best and the worst 
drug showed that levosimendan is the best agent to improve survival after cardiac
surgery. The sensitivity analyses performed did not produce different
interpretative result.
CONCLUSION: Levosimendan seems to be the most efficacious inodilator to improve
survival in cardiac surgery.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Journal of Anaesthesia. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25652947  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


191. Clin Exp Metastasis. 2015 Feb 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Anti-metastatic activity of the tumor vascular targeting agent NGR-TNF.

Di Matteo P(1), Mangia P, Tiziano E, Valentinis B, Porcellini S, Doglioni C,
Sanvito F, Bordignon C, Rizzardi GP, Traversari C.

Author information: 
(1)MolMed SpA, via Olgettina 58, 20132, Milan, Italy.

Tumor vessels are an attractive target for cancer therapy, including metastasis
treatment. Angiogenesis inhibitors targeting the VEGF signalling pathway have
proven to be efficacious in preclinical cancer models and in clinical trials.
However, angiogenesis inhibition concomitantly elicits tumor adaptation and
progression to stages of greater malignancy, with heightened invasiveness and in 
some cases increased distant metastasis. Here, we investigated whether NGR-TNF, a
vascular targeting agent in phase III clinical development, coupling the CNGRCG
angiogenic vessel-homing peptide with TNF-α, has an effect on metastasis in a
model of murine breast cancer, which spontaneously metastasize to lungs, and on
the growth of experimental melanoma lung metastasis. We report that NGR-TNF does 
not increase cancer invasiveness, as other antiangiogenics agents do, but
controls metastatic growth in both models, both when administered as primary
treatment and in adjuvant settings, improving the overall survival of
metastasis-bearing mice.

PMID: 25648442  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


192. Clin Ther. 2015 Feb 4. pii: S0149-2918(15)00009-0. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.01.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy, Safety, and Acceptability of a Lipid-Based Artificial Tear Formulation:
A Randomized, Controlled, Multicenter Clinical Trial.

Simmons PA(1), Carlisle-Wilcox C(2), Chen R(2), Liu H(2), Vehige JG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Allergan Clinical Research, Allergan, Inc, Irvine, California. Electronic
address: Simmons_Peter@allergan.com. (2)Allergan Clinical Research, Allergan,
Inc, Irvine, California.

PURPOSE: Dry eye disease is highly prevalent worldwide, causing discomfort and
visual disturbances that can limit basic activities such as reading and driving. 
Although artificial tears represent first-line therapy, there is a paucity of
published controlled clinical trials. The present study compared the efficacy,
clinical safety, and acceptability of 2 multicomponent, lipid-based tear
formulations (ADV1 and ADV2) to those of an existing lipid-based tear formulation
(DET) in patients with signs and symptoms of dry eye disease.
METHODS: This 3-month, multicenter, double-masked study was conducted in patients
with dry eye symptoms, reduced tear break-up time (TBUT), and ocular surface
damage. Patients were randomized to receive 1 of 2 lipid-based tear formulations 
containing carboxymethylcellulose, glycerin, polysorbate 80, and emulsified lipid
(ADV1 or ADV2) or DET, and instilled 1 to 2 drops per eye at least twice daily.
The primary end point was the mean change from baseline in Subjective Evaluation 
of Symptom of Dryness score at day 90 to determine noninferiority of the 2 ADV
formulations versus DET. Secondary end points included Ocular Surface Disease
Index (OSDI) score, TBUT, ocular surface staining, and tolerability.
FINDINGS: Of 288 randomized patients, 256 completed the study. All 3 groups
showed improvement in symptoms, and the 2 lipid-based formulations were
noninferior to DET in reducing the severity of symptoms of dryness at 90 days. Of
the 3 treatment groups, the ADV2 group had the greatest improvements in TBUT and 
OSDI. Significant improvements in mean tolerability scores for comfort, soothing,
burning/stinging, and discomfort were observed in the ADV2 group versus the DET
group at 90 days. Treatment-related adverse events were reported in 13 patients
(13.4%) receiving ADV1, 8 (8.4%) receiving ADV2, and 21 (21.9%) receiving DET.
Four patients (4.1%) in the ADV1 group and 2 (2.1%) in the ADV2 group
discontinued owing to an adverse event compared with 14 (14.6%) receiving DET.
IMPLICATIONS: In these patients with dry eye symptoms, ADV2 was an effective and 
relatively well-tolerated artificial tear for first-line therapy and should be
considered as a treatment option for dry eye, especially in those patients who
would benefit from a lipid-based formulation in addition to lubrication.
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01010282.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659956  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


193. Clin Trials. 2015 Feb 4. pii: 1740774515569610. [Epub ahead of print]

Optimisation of pharmacy content in clinical cancer research protocols:
Experience of the United Kingdom Chemotherapy and Pharmacy Advisory Service.

Debruyne PR(1), Johnson PJ(2), Pottel L(3), Daniels S(4), Greer R(5), Hodgkinson 
E(6), Kelly S(7), Lycke M(3), Samol J(8), Mason J(9), Kimber D(10), Loucaides
E(11), Parmar MK(12), Harvey S(13); on behalf of NIHR CRN – CPAS.

Author information: 
(1)Ageing & Cancer Research Cluster, Centre for Positive Ageing, University of
Greenwich, London, UK Department of Adult Nursing & Paramedic Science, Faculty of
Education & Health, University of Greenwich, London, UK Cancer Centre, General
Hospital Groeninge, Kortrijk, Belgium P.Debruyne@greenwich.ac.uk
Philip.Debruyne@azgroeninge.be. (2)Department of Molecular and Clinical Cancer
Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK. (3)Ageing & Cancer Research
Cluster, Centre for Positive Ageing, University of Greenwich, London, UK Cancer
Centre, General Hospital Groeninge, Kortrijk, Belgium. (4)Pharmacy and Medicines 
Management, University College London Hospitals, London, UK. (5)Leeds Teaching
Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK. (6)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation
Trust, Sheffield, UK. (7)Pfizer Oncology UK, Tadworth, UK. (8)St George's
Hospital Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK. (9)Sandwell and West Birmingham
Hospitals NHS Trust, West Midlands, UK Pharmacy and Therapeutics, University of
Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. (10)Wessex Clinical Senate & Strategic Networks, NHS 
England, Southampton, UK. (11)NCRI Clinical Studies Groups, London, UK. (12)MRC
Clinical Trials Unit, University College London, London, UK. (13)NIHR CPAS,
National Institute for Health Research, Clinical Research Network Cancer
Coordinating Centre, Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND: Clarity and accuracy of the pharmacy aspects of cancer clinical trial
protocols is essential. Inconsistencies and ambiguities in such protocols have
the potential to delay research and jeopardise both patient safety and collection
of credible data. The Chemotherapy and Pharmacy Advisory Service was established 
by the UK National Cancer Research Network, currently known as National Institute
for Health Research Clinical Research Network, to improve the quality of
pharmacy-related content in cancer clinical research protocols. This article
reports the scope of Chemotherapy and Pharmacy Advisory Service, its methodology 
of mandated protocol review and pharmacy-related guidance initiatives and its
current impact.
METHODS: Over a 6-year period (2008-2013) since the inception of Chemotherapy and
Pharmacy Advisory Service, cancer clinical trial protocols were reviewed by the
service, prior to implementation at clinical trial sites. A customised Review
Checklist was developed and used by a panel of experts to standardise the review 
process and report back queries and inconsistencies to chief investigators. Based
on common queries, a Standard Protocol Template comprising specific guidance on
drug-related content and a Pharmacy Manual Template were developed. In addition, 
a guidance framework was established to address 'ad hoc' pharmacy-related
queries. The most common remarks made at protocol review have been summarised and
categorised through retrospective analysis. In order to evaluate the impact of
the service, chief investigators were asked to respond to queries made at
protocol review and make appropriate changes to their protocols. Responses from
chief investigators have been collated and acceptance rates determined.
RESULTS: A total of 176 protocols were reviewed. The median number of remarks per
protocol was 26, of which 20 were deemed clinically relevant and mainly concerned
the drug regimen, support medication, frequency and type of monitoring and drug
supply aspects. Further analysis revealed that 62% of chief investigators
responded to the review. All responses were positive with an overall acceptance
rate of 89% of the proposed protocol changes.
CONCLUSION: Review of pharmacy content of cancer clinical trial protocols is
feasible and exposes many undetected clinically relevant issues that could hinder
efficient trial conduct. Our service audit revealed that the majority of
suggestions were effectively incorporated in the final protocols. The refinement 
of existing and development of new pharmacy-related guidance documents by
Chemotherapy and Pharmacy Advisory Service might aid in better and safer clinical
research.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25652529  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


194. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 4;2:CD003130. [Epub ahead of print]

Mobile bearing vs fixed bearing prostheses for posterior cruciate retaining total
knee arthroplasty for postoperative functional status in patients with
osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.

Hofstede SN(1), Nouta KA, Jacobs W, van Hooff ML, Wymenga AB, Pijls BG, Nelissen 
RG, Marang-van de Mheen PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center,
Postzone J10-s, room J10-88, P.O. Box 9600, Leiden, Netherlands, 2300 RC.

BACKGROUND: It is unclear whether there are differences in benefits and harms
between mobile and fixed prostheses for total knee arthroplasty (TKA). The
previous Cochrane review published in 2004 included two articles. Many more
trials have been performed since then; therefore an update is needed.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and harms of mobile bearing compared with
fixed bearing cruciate retaining total knee arthroplasty for functional and
clinical outcomes in patients with osteoarthritis (OA) or rheumatoid arthritis
(RA).
SEARCH METHODS: We searched The Cochrane Library, PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL and Web 
of Science up to 27 February 2014, and the trial registers ClinicalTrials.gov,
Multiregister, Current Controlled Trials and the World Health Organization (WHO) 
International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for data from unpublished trials,
up to 11 February 2014. We also screened the reference lists of selected
articles.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We selected randomised controlled trials comparing mobile
bearing with fixed bearing prostheses in cruciate retaining TKA among patients
with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, using functional or clinical outcome
measures and follow-up of at least six months.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological procedures as
expected by The Cochrane Collaboration.
MAIN RESULTS: We found 19 studies with 1641 participants (1616 with OA (98.5%)
and 25 with RA (1.5%)) and 2247 knees. Seventeen new studies were included in
this update.Quality of the evidence ranged from moderate (knee pain) to low
(other outcomes). Most studies had unclear risk of bias for allocation
concealment, blinding of participants and personnel, blinding of outcome
assessment and selective reporting, and high risk of bias for incomplete outcome 
data and other bias. Knee painWe calculated the standardised mean difference
(SMD) for pain, using the Knee Society Score (KSS) and visual analogue scale
(VAS) in 11 studies (58%) and 1531 knees (68%). No statistically significant
differences between groups were reported (SMD 0.09, 95% confidence interval (CI) 
-0.03 to 0.22, P value 0.15). This represents an absolute risk difference of 2.4%
points higher (95% CI 0.8% lower to 5.9% higher) on the KSS pain scale and a
relative percent change of 0.22% (95% CI 0.07% lower to 0.53% higher). The
results were homogeneous. Clinical and functional scores The KSS clinical score
did not differ statistically significantly between groups (14 studies (74%) and
1845 knees (82%)) with a mean difference (MD) of -1.06 points (95% CI -2.87 to
0.74, P value 0.25) and heterogeneous results. KSS function was reported in 14
studies (74%) with 1845 knees (82%) as an MD of -0.10 point (95% CI -1.93 to
1.73, P value 0.91) and homogeneous results. In two studies (11%), the KSS total 
score was favourable for mobile bearing (159 vs 132 for fixed bearing), with MD
of -26.52 points (95% CI -45.03 to -8.01, P value 0.005), but with a wide 95%
confidence interval indicating uncertainty about the estimate.Other reported
scoring systems did not show statistically significant differences: Hospital for 
Special Surgery (HSS) score (seven studies (37%) in 1021 knees (45%)) with an MD 
of -1.36 (95% CI -4.18 to 1.46, P value 0.35); Western Ontario and McMaster
Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) total score (two studies (11%), 167
knees (7%)) with an MD of -4.46 (95% CI -16.26 to 7.34, P value 0.46); and Oxford
total (five studies (26%), 647 knees (29%) with an MD of -0.25 (95% CI -1.41 to
0.91, P value 0.67). Health-related quality of lifeThree studies (16%) with 498
knees (22%) reported on health-related quality of life, and no statistically
significant differences were noted between the mobile bearing and fixed bearing
groups. The Short Form (SF)-12 Physical Component Summary had an MD of -1.96 (95%
CI -4.55 to 0.63, P value 0.14) and heterogeneous results. Revision surgeryTwenty
seven revisions (1.3%) were performed in 17 studies (89%) with 2065 knees (92%). 
In all, 13 knees were revised in the fixed bearing group and 14 knees in the
mobile bearing group. No statistically significant differences were found (risk
difference 0.00, 95% CI -0.01 to 0.01, P value 0.58), and homogeneous results
were reported. MortalityIn seven out of 19 studies, 13 participants (37%) died.
Two of these participants had undergone bilateral surgery, and for seven
participants, it was unclear which prosthesis they had received; therefore they
were excluded from the analyses. Thus our analysis included four out of 191
participants (2.1%) who had died: one in the fixed bearing group and three in the
mobile bearing group. No statistically significant differences were found. The
risk difference was -0.02 (95% CI -0.06 to 0.03, P value 0.49) and results were
homogeneous. Reoperation ratesThirty reoperations were performed in 17 studies
(89%) with 2065 knees (92%): 18 knees in the fixed bearing group (of the 1031
knees) and 12 knees in the mobile group (of the 1034 knees). No statistically
significant differences were found. The risk difference was -0.01 (95% CI -0.01
to 0.01, P value 0.99) with homogeneous results. Other serious adverse
eventsSixteen studies (84%) reported nine other serious adverse events in 1735
knees (77%): four in the fixed bearing group (of the 862 knees) and five in the
mobile bearing group (of the 873 knees). No statistically significant differences
were found (risk difference 0.00, 95% CI -0.01 to 0.01, P value 0.88), and
results were homogeneous.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Moderate- to low-quality evidence suggests that mobile
bearing prostheses may have similar effects on knee pain, clinical and functional
scores, health-related quality of life, revision surgery, mortality, reoperation 
rate and other serious adverse events compared with fixed bearing prostheses in
posterior cruciate retaining TKA. Therefore we cannot draw firm conclusions. Most
(98.5%) participants had OA, so the findings primarily reflect results reported
in participants with OA. Future studies should report in greater detail outcomes 
such as those presented in this systematic review, with sufficient follow-up time
to allow gathering of high-quality evidence and to inform clinical practice.
Large registry-based studies may have added value, but they are subject to
treatment-by-indication bias. Therefore, this systematic review of RCTs can be
viewed as the best available evidence.

PMID: 25650566  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


195. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2015 Feb 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Immunotherapy for Ovarian Cancer.

Drerup JM(1), Liu Y, Padron AS, Murthy K, Hurez V, Zhang B, Curiel TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, School of Medicine, University 
of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX, 78229, USA.

OPINION STATEMENT: All work referenced herein relates to treatment of epithelial 
ovarian carcinomas, as their treatment differs from ovarian germ cell cancers and
other rare ovarian cancers, the treatments of which are addressed elsewhere.
Fallopian tube cancers and primary peritoneal adenocarcinomatosis are also
generally treated as epithelial ovarian cancers. The standard of care initial
treatment of advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer is optimal debulking
surgery as feasible plus chemotherapy with a platinum plus a taxane agent. If
this front-line approach fails, as it too often the case, several FDA-approved
agents are available for salvage therapy. However, because no second-line therapy
for advanced-stage epithelial ovarian cancer is typically curative, we prefer
referral to clinical trials as logistically feasible, even if it means referring 
patients outside our system. Immune therapy has a sound theoretical basis for
treating carcinomas generally, and for treating ovarian cancer in particular.
Advances in understanding the immunopathogenic basis of ovarian cancer, and the
immunopathologic basis for prior failures of immunotherapy for it and other
carcinomas promises to afford novel treatment approaches with potential for
significant efficacy, and reduced toxicities compared with cytotoxic agents.
Thus, referral to early phase immunotherapy trials for ovarian cancer patients
that fail conventional treatment merits consideration.

PMID: 25648541  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


196. Drugs. 2015 Feb 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Fluticasone Furoate/Vilanterol: a Review of Its Use in Patients with Asthma.

Syed YY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay 0754, Auckland, New Zealand,
demail@springer.com.

Fluticasone furoate/vilanterol (Relvar(®)) is a once-daily, fixed combination of 
an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and a long-acting β2-adrenoreceptor agonist
(LABA), delivered via a dry powder inhaler (Ellipta(®)). It is approved for the
treatment of asthma in the EU and Japan, and is the first once-daily ICS/LABA to 
be available for this indication. Fluticasone furoate is an enhanced-affinity
glucocorticoid receptor agonist, with potent anti-inflammatory activity.
Vilanterol produces rapid and prolonged bronchodilation. In phase III trials in
adolescents and adults with various levels of asthma uncontrolled on ICS and/or
ICS/LABA, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 100/25 or 200/25 µg once daily (approved
dosages in the EU) significantly improved pulmonary function compared with
placebo or equivalent dosages of fluticasone furoate alone (in some trials) or
fluticasone propionate. In similar trials, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol
100/25 µg once daily was as effective as fluticasone propionate/salmeterol
250/50 µg twice daily in improving pulmonary function and significantly reduced
the risk of severe asthma exacerbation relative to fluticasone furoate alone. In 
clinical trials, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol was generally well tolerated with
fewer than 15 % of patients experiencing treatment-related adverse events, the
most common of which were oral/oropharyngeal candidiasis, dysphonia,
extrasystoles and cough. The tolerability profile of fluticasone
furoate/vilanterol was generally similar to that of fluticasone
propionate/salmeterol. Thus, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol is an effective and
generally well tolerated ICS/LABA option for the treatment of uncontrolled
asthma.

PMID: 25648266  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


197. Endocrine. 2015 Feb 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Survey of current approaches to non-diagnostic fine-needle aspiration from solid 
thyroid nodules.

Brito JP(1), Castro MR, Dean DS, Fatourechi V, Stan M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, Metabolism and Nutrition, Mayo Clinic,
200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA, brito.juan@mayo.edu.

The exact frequency of non-diagnostic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration
(USFNA) is unknown. Clinical guidelines suggest repeating USFNA of these nodules.
However, there is no specific recommendation or evidence on how and when this
re-aspiration should be done. We aim to describe the approaches considered by
endocrinologists to yield the highest likelihood of a satisfactory sample in
solid thyroid nodules. A cross-sectional survey of The Endocrine Society (TES)
and the American Thyroid Association members was conducted between October and
December 2012. A total of 694 surveys were returned, 648 (93.4 %) from TES. The
responders were equally divided between private and academic settings and had a
high degree of expertise. Thirty-nine percent of respondents estimated the
frequency of non-diagnostic USFNA to be above 10 %. For its management, 311
(46 %) recommended repeating USFNA in 1-3 months. For a second non-diagnostic
USFNA, 216 (31 %) recommend surgery. The most common approaches to increase the
diagnostic yield were (1) use of suction with USFNA, 18 % and (2) changing the
targeted area of biopsy within the nodule, 18 %. Few considered the patients'
preferences as an important driver for the management of non-diagnostic USFNA.
Finally, a molecular test for bypassing non-diagnostic USFNA was regarded as the 
most needed strategy for future research. Variability exists in the management of
non-diagnostic USFNA and strategies to increase the diagnostic yield. Testing the
suggested strategies in clinical trials and understanding patient's preferences
should be supported by guideline panels and funding agencies.

PMID: 25649761  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


198. Food Chem Toxicol. 2015 Feb 4. pii: S0278-6915(15)00033-2. doi:
10.1016/j.fct.2015.01.020. [Epub ahead of print]

Developing a QSAR model for hepatotoxicity screening of the active compounds in
traditional Chinese medicines.

Huang SH(1), Tung CW(2), Fülöp F(3), Li JH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Ph.D. Program in Toxicology and School of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. (2)Ph.D. Program in Toxicology
and School of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical University,
Kaohsiung, Taiwan; National Environmental Health Research Center, National Health
Research Institutes, Taiwan. (3)Institute of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University
of Szeged, Hungary. (4)Ph.D. Program in Toxicology and School of Pharmacy,
College of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; National
Environmental Health Research Center, National Health Research Institutes,
Taiwan. Electronic address: jhlitox@kmu.edu.tw.

The perception that natural substances are deemed safe has made traditional
Chinese medicine (TCM) popular in the treatment and prevention of disease
globally. However, such an assumption is often misleading owing to a lack of
scientific validation. To assess the safety of TCM, in silico screening provides 
major advantages over the classical laboratory approaches in terms of resource-
and time-saving and full reproducibility. To screen the hepatotoxicity of the
active compounds of TCMs, a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR)
model was firstly established by utilizing drugs from the Liver Toxicity
Knowledge Base. These drugs were annotated with drug-induced liver injury
information obtained from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance. The
performance of the model after nested 10-fold cross-validation was 79.1%, 91.2%, 
53.8% for accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity, respectively. The external
validation of 91 well-known ingredients of common herbal medicines yielded a high
accuracy (87%). After screening the TCM Database@Taiwan, the world's largest TCM 
database, a total of 6853 (74.8%) ingredients were predicted to have hepatotoxic 
potential. The one-hundred chemical ingredients predicted to have the highest
hepatotoxic potential by our model were further verified by published
literatures. Our study indicated that this model can serve as a complementary
tool to evaluate the safety of TCM.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25660478  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


199. Heart Fail Rev. 2015 Feb 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Site selection for heart failure clinical trials in the USA.

Harinstein ME(1), Butler J, Greene SJ, Fonarow GC, Stockbridge NL, O'Connor CM,
Pfeffer MA, Mehra MR, Solomon SD, Yancy CW, Fiuzat M, Mentz RJ, Collins SP,
McMurray JJ, Vaduganathan M, Dunnmon PM, Rosano GM, Dinh W, Misselwitz F, Bonow
RO, Gheorghiade M.

Author information: 
(1)Heart and Vascular Institute, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center,
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

There are more than 1 million primary hospitalizations for heart failure (HF)
annually in the USA alone, and post-discharge outcomes remain persistently poor
despite available therapies and quality improvement initiatives. Recent
international randomized clinical trials in hospitalized HF have repeatedly
failed to improve this post-discharge event rate. A potential reason for this
persistent lack of clinical trial success that has not previously received
significant attention relates to site selection and the generally low level of
patient enrollment from the USA. Only ~5 % of US hospitals participate in
clinical trials, and in four recent randomized trials of hospitalized HF, only
one-third of patients were enrolled in North America. This poor participation
among US centers has necessitated disproportionate enrollment from non-US sites. 
Regional variations in HF patient characteristics and clinical outcomes are well 
documented, and a lack of US patient representation in clinical trials limits the
generalizability of results and presents obstacles for US regulatory agency
approval. There are multiple impediments to successful US enrollment including a 
lack of incentive for investigators and institutions, the relative value
unit-based compensation system, poor institutional framework for identification
of appropriate patients, and increasing liability to conduct trials. In this
manuscript, we specifically identify barriers to successful hospitalized HF
clinical trial participation in the USA and suggest possible solutions.

PMID: 25649127  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


200. Int J Environ Health Res. 2015 Feb 4:1-13. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of four case-crossover study designs to analyze the association
between air pollution exposure and acute myocardial infarction.

Collart P(1), Coppieters Y, Mercier G, Massamba Kubuta V, Leveque A.

Author information: 
(1)a Research Centre in Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, School
of Public Health , Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB) , Brussels , Belgium.

The case-crossover design is frequently used for analyzing the acute health
effects of air pollution. Nevertheless, only a few studies compared different
methods for selecting control periods. In this study, the bidirectional method
and three time-stratified methods were used to estimate the association between
air pollution and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in Charleroi, Belgium, during
1999-2008. The strongest associations between air pollution and AMI were observed
for PM10 and NO2 during the warm period, OR = 1.095 (95 % CI: 1.003-1.169) and
OR = 1.120 (95 % CI: 1.001-1.255), respectively. The results of this study
reinforce the evidence of the acute effects of air pollution on AMI, especially
during the warm season. This study suggests that the different methods of
case-crossover study design are suitable to studying the association between
acute events and air pollution. The temperature-stratified design is useful to
exclude temperature as a potential confounder.

PMID: 25650956  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


201. Int J Pharm. 2015 Feb 4;483(1-2):1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.02.008. [Epub
ahead of print]

Fractal geometry as a new approach for proving nanosimilarity: A reflection note.

Demetzos C(1), Pippa N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy,
Panepistimioupolis Zografou 15771, National and Kapodistrian University of
Athens, Athens, Greece. Electronic address: demetzos@pharm.uoa.gr. (2)Department 
of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Panepistimioupolis Zografou
15771, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

Nanosimilars are considered as new medicinal outcomes combining the generic drugs
and the nanocarrier as an innovative excipient, in order to evaluate them as
final products. They belong to the grey area - concerning the evaluation process 
- between generic drugs and biosimilar medicinal products. Generic drugs are well
documented and a huge number of them are in market, replacing effectively the
off-patent drugs. The scientific approach for releasing them to the market is
based on bioequivalence studies, which are well documented and accepted by the
regulatory agencies. On the other hand, the structural complexity of
biological/biotechnology-derived products demands a new approach for the approval
process taking into consideration that bioequivalence studies are not considered 
as sufficient as in generic drugs, and new clinical trials are needed to support 
their approval process of the product to the market. In proportion, due to
technological complexity of nanomedicines, the approaches for proving the
statistical identity or the similarity for generic and biosimilar products,
respectively, with those of prototypes, are not considered as effective for
nanosimilar products. The aim of this note is to propose a complementary approach
which can provide realistic evidences concerning the nanosimilarity, based on
fractal analysis. This approach is well fit with the structural complexity of
nanomedicines and smooths the difficulties for proving the similarity between
off-patent and nanosimilar products. Fractal analysis could be considered as the 
approach that completely characterizes the physicochemical/morphological
characteristics of nanosimilar products and could be proposed as a start point
for a deep discussion on nanosimilarity.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659328  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


202. J Altern Complement Med. 2015 Feb 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of T'ai Chi on Balance: A Population-Based Meta-Analysis.

Song R(1), Ahn S, So H, Lee EH, Chung Y, Park M.

Author information: 
(1)1 College of Nursing, Chungnam National University , Daejeon, Korea.

Objective: To systematically review and analyze the effects of t'ai chi on
balance in older adults. Methods: The literature was searched for randomized
clinical trials on the effects of t'ai chi on balance, as evaluated by direct,
static, dynamic, and mixed measures. The effect sizes (ESs) on balance were
calculated by using the standardized mean difference (d) and 95% confidence
intervals. Results: Thirty-four studies were included. The overall ES of t'ai chi
on static balance was medium at 3 months (ES=0.73) and small at 6 months
(ES=0.33) for participants with a low risk of falling. For those with a high risk
of falling, the ES of t'ai chi on static balance was small (ES=0.47) at 3 months 
but not significant at 6 months. When compared with the no-exercise group, the ES
of t'ai chi on static balance was medium (ES=0.66) at 3 months but smaller at 6
months (ES=0.37). The ES of t'ai chi (ES=0.31) was only significant at 6 months
when compared with other exercise. Conclusion: The findings of this meta-analysis
suggest that persons with a low risk of falling should practice t'ai chi for 3
months to improve their balance. The effects of t'ai chi on balance in those with
a high risk of falling were small but significant at 3 months, supporting the
safety and effectiveness of t'ai chi. It is important to select reliable and
sensitive measures for balance to examine the effects of t'ai chi.

PMID: 25650522  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


203. J Bone Miner Res. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.2464. [Epub ahead of print]

Bone engineering of maxillary sinus bone deficiencies using enriched CD90+ stem
cell therapy: A randomized clinical trial.

Kaigler D(1), Avila-Ortiz G, Travan S, Taut AD, Padial-Molina M, Rudek I, Wang F,
Lanis A, Giannobile WV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontics and Oral Medicine, University of Michigan School of
Dentistry, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA; University of Michigan Center for Oral
Health Research, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
College of Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

Bone engineering of localized craniofacial osseous defects or deficiencies by
stem cell therapy offers strong prospects to improve treatment predictability for
patient care. The aim of this phase I/II randomized, controlled, clinical trial
was to evaluate reconstruction of bone deficiencies of the maxillary sinus with
transplantation of autologous cells enriched with CD90+ stem cells and CD14+
monocytes. Thirty human participants requiring bone augmentation of the maxillary
sinus were enrolled. Patients presenting with 50-80% bone deficiencies of the
maxillary sinus were randomized to receive either stem cells delivered onto a
β-tricalcium phosphate scaffold, or scaffold alone. Four months following
treatment, clinical, radiographic, and histologic analyses were performed to
evaluate de novo engineered bone. At the time of alveolar bone core harvest, oral
implants were installed in the engineered bone and later functionally restored
with dental tooth prostheses. Radiographic analyses showed no difference in the
total bone volume gained between treatment groups, however, density of the
engineered bone was higher in patients receiving stem cells. Bone core biopsies
showed that stem cell therapy provided the greatest benefit in the most severe
deficiencies, yielding better bone quality than control patients, as evidenced by
higher bone volume fraction (BVF; 0.5 vs. 0.4; p=0.04). Assessment of the
relation between degree of CD90+ stem cell enrichment and BVF showed that the
higher the CD90 composition of transplanted cells, the greater the BVF of
regenerated bone (r=0.56; p=0.05). Oral implants were placed and restored with
functionally-loaded dental restorations in all patients and no treatment-related 
adverse events were reported at the one-year follow-up. These results provide
evidence that cell-based therapy using enriched CD90+ stem cell populations is
safe for maxillary sinus floor reconstruction and offers potential to accelerate 
and enhance tissue engineered bone quality in other craniofacial bone defects and
deficiencies (Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00980278). This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25652112  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


204. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1111/jdv.12976. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Treatment of generalized granuloma annulare - a systematic review.

Lukács J(1), Schliemann S, Elsner P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Jena, Jena, Germany.

Granuloma annulare (GA) is a benign inflammatory skin disease. Localized GA is
likely to resolve spontaneously, while generalized GA (GGA) is rare and may
persist for decades. GGA usually is resistant to a variety of therapeutic
modalities and takes a chronic course. The objective of this study was to
summarize all reported treatments of generalized granuloma annulare. This is a
systematic review based on MEDLINE, Embase and Cochrane Central Register search
of articles in English and German and a manual search, between 1980 and 2013, to 
summarize the treatment of generalized granuloma annulare. Most medical
literature on treatment of GGA is limited to individual case reports and small
series of patients treated without a control group. Randomized controlled
clinical studies are missing. Multiple treatment modalities for GGA were reported
including topical and systemic steroids, PUVA, isotretinoin, dapsone,
pentoxifylline, hydroxychloroquine, cyclosporine, IFN-γ, potassium iodide,
nicotinamide, niacinamide, salicylic acid, dipyridamole, PDT, fumaric acid ester,
etanercept, infliximab, adalimumab. While there are numerous case reports of
successful treatments in the literature including surgical, medical and
phototherapy options, well-designed, randomized, controlled clinical trials are
required for an evidence-based treatment of GGA.

© 2015 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

PMID: 25651003  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


205. J Med Chem. 2015 Feb 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Progress in Discovery of KIF5B-RET Kinase Inhibitors for the Treatment of
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer.

Song M(1).

Author information: 
(1)New Drug Development Center (NDDC), Daegu-Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation
Foundation (DGMIF), 80 Cheombok-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu 701-310, Korea.

A new chimeric fusion transcript of KIF5B (the kinesin family 5B gene) and the
RET (Rearranged during Transcription) oncogene, KIF5B-RET, was found in 1-2% of
lung adenocarcinomas (LADCs) in late 2011. Several related clinical trials for
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with KIF5B-RET rearrangements using existing
RET inhibitors, such as lenvatinib, vandetanib, sunitinib, ponatinib,
cabozantinib, and AUY922, have been swiftly initiated by the discovery of the
KIF5B-RET fusion gene. Anti-RET activity and the status of clinical development
of these known RET tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) for KIF5B-RET
fusion-positive NSCLC are discussed. A kinase inhibitor that can target a driver 
mutation specifically may lead to a superior clinical benefit compared with
broad-spectrum kinase inhibitors. In this regard, an analysis of the structure of
RET kinase and its complex with known RET inhibitors are also briefly discussed.

PMID: 25625428  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


206. J Virol. 2015 Feb 4. pii: JVI.03651-14. [Epub ahead of print]

Reduced Virion-Associated σ1 Fibers on Oncolytic Reovirus Variants Promotes
Adaptation towards Tumorigenic Cells.

Mohamed A(1), Teicher C(1), Haefliger S(1), Shmulevitz M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of Alberta,
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. (2)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, 
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. shmulevi@ualberta.ca.

Serotype 3 reovirus (T3wt) is non-pathogenic in humans but preferentially infects
and kills cancer cells in culture and demonstrates promising anti-tumor activity 
in vivo. Using forward genetics, we previously isolated two variants of reovirus,
T3v1 and T3v2, with increased infectivity towards a panel of cancer cell lines
and improved in vivo oncolysis in a murine melanoma model relative to T3wt. Our
current study explored how mutations in T3v1 and T3v2 promote infectivity.
Reovirions contain trimers of σ1, the reovirus cell attachment protein, at
icosahedral capsid vertices. Quantitative western blot analysis showed that
purified T3v1 and T3v2 virions had approximately 2- and 4- fold lower levels of
σ1 fiber than T3wt. Importantly, using RNA interference to reduce σ1 levels
during T3wt production, we were able to generate wild-type reovirus with reduced 
σ1 per virion. As σ1 levels reduced, virion infectivity increased by 2-5 fold per
equivalent bound virions, demonstrating a causal relationship between virion σ1
levels and infectivity of incoming virions. During infection of tumorigenic L929 
cells, T3wt, T3v1 and T3v2 uncoated outer capsid proteins σ3 and μ1C at similar
rates. However, having started with fewer σ1 molecules, complete loss of σ1 was
achieved sooner for T3v1 and T3v2. Distinct from intracellular uncoating,
chymotrypsin digestion as a mimic of natural enteric infection resulted in
more-rapid σ3 and μ1C removal, unique disassembly intermediates and rapid loss of
infectivity for T3v1 and T3v2 compared to T3wt. Optimal infectivity towards
natural versus therapeutic niches may therefore require distinct reovirus
structures and σ1 levels.IMPORTANCE: Wild-type reovirus is currently in clinical 
trials as a potential cancer therapy. Our molecular studies on variants of
reovirus with enhanced oncolytic activity in vitro and in vivo, now shows that
distinct reovirus structures promote adaptation towards cancer cells and away
from conditions that mimic natural routes of infection. Specifically, we found
that reovirus particles with fewer molecules of cell-attachment protein σ1 became
more infectious towards transformed cells. Reduced σ1 conferred a benefit to
incoming particles only, resulting in earlier depletion of σ1 and higher
probability of establishing productive infection. Conversely, reovirus variants
with fewer σ1 showed reduced stability, infectivity, and distinct disassembly
when exposed to conditions that mimic natural intestinal proteolysis. These
findings support a model where the mode of infection dictates the precise optimum
of reovirus structure, and provides molecular rationale for considering
alternative reovirus structures during oncolytic therapy.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

PMID: 25653434  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


207. Kidney Int. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1038/ki.2014.419. [Epub ahead of print]

Development and validation of a predictive mortality risk score from a European
hemodialysis cohort.

Floege J(1), Gillespie IA(2), Kronenberg F(3), Anker SD(4), Gioni I(5), Richards 
S(6), Pisoni RL(7), Robinson BM(7), Marcelli D(8), Froissart M(9), Eckardt
KU(10).

Author information: 
(1)Nephrology, RWTH University of Aachen, Aachen, Germany. (2)Center for
Observational Research (CfOR), Amgen Ltd, Uxbridge, UK. (3)Division of Genetic
Epidemiology, Department of Medical Genetics, Molecular and Clinical
Pharmacology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria. (4)Department 
of Innovative Clinical Trials, University Medical Centre Göttingen, Göttingen,
Germany. (5)On behalf of Amgen Ltd, Uxbridge, UK. (6)Global Biostatistics, Amgen 
Ltd, Uxbridge, UK. (7)Arbor Research Collaborative for Health, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, USA. (8)EMEALA Medical Board, Fresenius Medical Care, Bad Homburg,
Germany. (9)International Development Nephrology, Amgen Europe GmbH, Zug,
Switzerland. (10)Nephrology and Hypertension, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg,
Erlangen, Germany.

Although mortality risk scores for chronic hemodialysis (HD) patients should have
an important role in clinical decision-making, those currently available have
limited applicability, robustness, and generalizability. Here we applied a
modified Framingham Heart Study approach to derive 1- and 2-year all-cause
mortality risk scores using a 11,508 European incident HD patient database
(AROii) recruited between 2007 and 2009. This scoring model was validated
externally using similar-sized Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Survey
(DOPPS) data. For AROii, the observed 1- and 2-year mortality rates were 13.0
(95% confidence interval (CI; 12.3-13.8)) and 11.2 (10.4-12.1)/100 patient years,
respectively. Increasing age, low body mass index, history of cardiovascular
disease or cancer, and use of a vascular access catheter during baseline were
consistent predictors of mortality. Among baseline laboratory markers,
hemoglobin, ferritin, C-reactive protein, serum albumin, and creatinine predicted
death within 1 and 2 years. When applied to the DOPPS population, the predictive 
risk score models were highly discriminatory, and generalizability remained high 
when restricted by incidence/prevalence and geographic location (C-statistics
0.68-0.79). This new model offers improved predictive power over
age/comorbidity-based models and also predicted early mortality (C-statistic
0.71). Our new model delivers a robust and reproducible mortality risk score,
based on readily available clinical and laboratory data.Kidney International
advance online publication, 4 February 2015; doi:10.1038/ki.2014.419.

PMID: 25651366  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


208. Lancet. 2015 Feb 4. pii: S0140-6736(14)62409-0. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62409-0. [Epub ahead of print]

Comprehensive geriatric care for patients with hip fractures: a prospective,
randomised, controlled trial.

Prestmo A(1), Hagen G(2), Sletvold O(1), Helbostad JL(3), Thingstad P(4),
Taraldsen K(4), Lydersen S(5), Halsteinli V(6), Saltnes T(7), Lamb SE(8), Johnsen
LG(9), Saltvedt I(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Norwegian University of Science and Technology,
Trondheim, Norway; Department of Geriatrics, St Olav Hospital, University
Hospital of Trondheim, Trondheim, Norway. (2)Department of Public Health and
General Practice, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim,
Norway. (3)Department of Neuroscience, Norwegian University of Science and
Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Clinical Services, St Olav Hospital,
University Hospital of Trondheim, Trondheim, Norway. (4)Department of
Neuroscience, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. 
(5)Regional Centre for Child and Youth Mental Health and Child Welfare, Norwegian
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. (6)Department of Public 
Health and General Practice, Norwegian University of Science and Technology,
Trondheim, Norway; The Central Norway Regional Health Authority, Stjørdal,
Norway. (7)The Norwegian Directorate of Health, Trondheim, Norway. (8)Oxford
Clinical Trials Research Unit, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. (9)Department of
Neuroscience, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; 
Department of Orthopaedics, St Olav Hospital, University Hospital of Trondheim,
Trondheim, Norway. (10)Department of Neuroscience, Norwegian University of
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of Geriatrics, St Olav
Hospital, University Hospital of Trondheim, Trondheim, Norway. Electronic
address: ingvild.saltvedt@ntnu.no.

BACKGROUND: Most patients with hip fractures are characterised by older age (>70 
years), frailty, and functional deterioration, and their long-term outcomes are
poor with increased costs. We compared the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness
of giving these patients comprehensive geriatric care in a dedicated geriatric
ward versus the usual orthopaedic care.
METHODS: We did a prospective, single-centre, randomised, parallel-group,
controlled trial. Between April 18, 2008, and Dec 30, 2010, we randomly assigned 
home-dwelling patients with hip-fractures aged 70 years or older who were able to
walk 10 m before their fracture, to either comprehensive geriatric care or
orthopaedic care in the emergency department, to achieve the required sample of
400 patients. Randomisation was achieved via a web-based, computer-generated,
block method with unknown block sizes. The primary outcome, analysed by intention
to treat, was mobility measured with the Short Physical Performance Battery
(SPPB) 4 months after surgery for the fracture. The type of treatment was not
concealed from the patients or staff delivering the care, and assessors were only
partly masked to the treatment during follow-up. This trial is registered with
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00667914.
FINDINGS: We assessed 1077 patients for eligibility, and excluded 680, mainly for
not meeting the inclusion criteria such as living in a nursing home or being aged
less than 70 years. Of the remaining patients, we randomly assigned 198 to
comprehensive geriatric care and 199 to orthopaedic care. At 4 months, 174
patients remained in the comprehensive geriatric care group and 170 in the
orthopaedic care group; the main reason for dropout was death. Mean SPPB scores
at 4 months were 5·12 (SE 0·20) for comprehensive geriatric care and 4·38 (SE
0·20) for orthopaedic care (between-group difference 0·74, 95% CI 0·18-1·30,
p=0·010).
INTERPRETATION: Immediate admission of patients aged 70 years or more with a hip 
fracture to comprehensive geriatric care in a dedicated ward improved mobility at
4 months, compared with the usual orthopaedic care. The results suggest that the 
treatment of older patients with hip fractures should be organised as
orthogeriatric care.
FUNDING: Norwegian Research Council, Central Norway Regional Health Authority, St
Olav Hospital Trust and Fund for Research and Innovation, Liaison Committee
between Central Norway Regional Health Authority and the Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, the Department of Neuroscience at the Norwegian
University of Science and Technology, Foundation for Scientific and Industrial
Research at the Norwegian Institute of Technology (SINTEF), and the Municipality 
of Trondheim.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25662415  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


209. Leukemia. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1038/leu.2015.24. [Epub ahead of print]

KIT mutation analysis in mast cell neoplasms: recommendations of the European
competence network on mastocytosis.

Arock M(1), Sotlar K(2), Akin C(3), Broesby-Olsen S(4), Hoermann G(5), Escribano 
L(6), Kristensen TK(7), Kluin-Nelemans HC(8), Hermine O(9), Dubreuil P(10), Sperr
WR(11), Hartmann K(12), Gotlib J(13), Cross NC(14), Haferlach T(15),
Garcia-Montero A(6), Orfao A(6), Schwaab J(16), Triggiani M(17), Horny HP(2),
Metcalfe DD(18), Reiter A(16), Valent P(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] Molecular Oncology and Pharmacology, LBPA CNRS UMR8113, Ecole Normale
Supérieure de Cachan, Cachan, France [2] Laboratory of Hematology, Groupe
Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France. (2)Institute of Pathology,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany. (3)Division of Allergy and
Immunology, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, USA. (4)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre, Odense
University Hospital, Odense, Denmark. (5)Department of Laboratory Medicine,
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. (6)Servicio Central de Citometria,
Centro de Investigacion del Cancer (IBMCC, CSIC/USAL), IBSAL and Department of
Medicine, University of Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain. (7)Department of Pathology, 
Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark. (8)Department of Hematology,
University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The
Netherlands. (9)Clinical Hematology Department, Faculty of Medicine and AP-HP
Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris Descartes University, Paris, France. (10)1]
Signaling, Hematopoiesis and Mechanism of Oncogenesis, Inserm U1068, CRCM,
Marseille, France [2] Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, France [3]
Aix-Marseille University, UM 105, Marseille, France [4] CNRS, UMR7258, CRCM,
Marseille, France. (11)Department of Internal Medicine I, Division of Hematology 
and Hemostaseology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. (12)Department
of Dermatology, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. (13)Stanford Cancer
Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, USA. (14)Wessex
Regional Genetics Laboratory, Salisbury, and Faculty of Medicine, University of
Southampton, Southampton, England, UK. (15)Munich Leukemia Laboratory, Munich,
Germany. (16)III. Medical Clinic, Hematology and Oncology, Medical University of 
Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany. (17)Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology,
University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy. (18)Laboratory of Allergic Diseases,
NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, USA.

Although acquired mutations in KIT are commonly detected in various categories of
mastocytosis, the methodologies applied to detect and quantify the mutant type
and allele burden in cells and various tissues are poorly defined. We here
propose a consensus on methodologies used to detect KIT mutations in patients
with mastocytosis at diagnosis and during follow up with sufficient precision and
sensitivity in daily practice. In addition, we provide recommendations for
sampling and storage of diagnostic material as well as a robust diagnostic
algorithm. Using highly-sensitive assays, KIT D816V can be detected in peripheral
blood leukocytes from most patients with systemic mastocytosis (SM) which is a
major step forward in screening and SM diagnosis. In addition, the KIT D816V
allele burden can be followed quantitatively during the natural course or during 
therapy. Our recommendations should greatly facilitate diagnostic and follow up
investigations in SM in daily practice as well as in clinical trials. In
addition, the new tools and algorithms proposed should lead to a more effective
screen, early diagnosis of SM, and help to avoid unnecessary referrals.Leukemia
accepted article preview online, 04 February 2015. doi:10.1038/leu.2015.24.

PMID: 25650093  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


210. Leukemia. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1038/leu.2015.21. [Epub ahead of print]

Diagnostic and prognostic role of PET/CT in patients with chronic lymphocytic
leukemia (CLL) and progressive disease.

Mauro FR(1), Chauvie S(2), Paoloni F(3), Biggi A(2), Cimino G(4), Rago A(4),
Gentile M(5), Morabito F(5), Coscia M(6), Bellò M(6), Sacchetti GM(7), Rossi
D(7), Laurenti L(8), Autore F(8), Campanelli M(1), Trastulli F(1), Nicolai E(9), 
Riminucci M(10), Gaidano G(7), Guarini A(1), Gallamini A(11), Foà R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology, Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Hematology, Sapienza
University, Rome. (2)Medical Physics Department, Azienda Ospedaliera S. Croce e
Carle, Cuneo. (3)Italian Group for Adult Hematologic Diseases (GIMEMA), Rome.
(4)Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Hematology, Sapienza University
Polo Pontino, Rome. (5)Hematology Section, Cosenza Hospital, Cosenza.
(6)Department of Hematology, University of Turin. (7)Amedeo Avogadro University
of Eastern Piedmont, Novara. (8)Department of Hematology Catholic University,
Rome. (9)SDN Foundation, Institute of Diagnostic and Nuclear Development, Naples.
(10)Department of Molecular Medicine, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(11)Research and Medical Innovation Department, Antoine-Lacassagne Cancer Center,
Nice, France.

In order to evaluate the predictive value of PET/CT in discriminating the
presence of a Richter's syndrome (RS) or a second malignancy (SM), as well as to 
evaluate its prognostic value in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia
(CLL), we retrospectively analyzed the data of 90 patients who, in the suspicion 
of a RS or a SM, underwent PET/CT followed by the biopsy of the involved tissue. 
The median maximum Standardized Uptake Value (SUVmax) in the presence of a
CLL/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), a 
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), a SM were 3.5 14.6, 7.0 and 6.3, respectively (P=<0.0001).
A SUVmax cutoff value ⩾5 showed a sensitivity, specificity, positive, negative
predictive values of 88.2, 71.2, 51.3 and 94%, respectively, for the presence of 
a more aggressive disease (DLBCL, HL, SM). A SUVmax ⩾5 identified also a subset
of treatment naïve patients with an inferior progression-free survival (P=0.011) 
and overall survival (P=0.067). These findings suggest that PET/CT may helpfully 
integrate the biologically-based prognostic stratification of CLL. Prospective
clinical trials including larger cohorts of patients are needed to conclusively
define the role and prognostic impact of PET/CT in the routine management of CLL 
patients.Leukemia accepted article preview online, 04 February 2015.
doi:10.1038/leu.2015.21.

PMID: 25650091  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


211. Microbiol Immunol. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1111/1348-0421.12241. [Epub ahead of
print]

Immunization with heat-inactivated Staphylococcus aureus induced an antibody
response mediated by IgG1 and IgG2 in patients with recurrent tonsillitis.

Garcia-Romo GS(1), Gonzalez-Ibarra M, Donis-Hernandez FR, Zendejas-Buitron VM,
Pedroza-Gonzalez A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Medical Mycology, Research Division, Hospital
Juarez of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico; FES-Cuautitlan UNAM, Mexico; Department of
Nephrology, Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands.

Currently Staphylococcus aureus is the predominant pathogen isolated from the
respiratory tract of patients with recurrent tonsillitis (RT). Because of the
rise in multi-drug resistant strains of S. aureus, there is a pressing need for
effective treatments and preventive approaches that can avoid the risk of
invasive and life-threatening infections. A preventive vaccine against S. aureus 
would have a tremendous clinical impact. However, multiple clinical trials have
failed to induce protective responses. Most trials have been based on subunit
vaccines using one or few purified antigens, which may not be enough to confer
protection. Here, we investigated the impact of a whole-cell vaccine comprised of
heat-inactivated S. aureus in patients with recurrent tonsillitis. The vaccine
was well tolerated without significant local or systemic reactions. Immunization 
with heat-inactivated S. aureus elicited a significant antibody response
characterized by the production of IgG1 and IgG2 antibodies and to a less extent 
of IgA. Notably, this response was associated with an important decrease in the
incidence of tonsillitis and bacterial colonization of the oropharyngeal mucosa. 
Our results show that whole-cell inactivated S. aureus is safe and capable to
evoke a specific antibody response in patients with recurrent tonsillitis.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25648612  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


212. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb 4. doi: 10.1002/mds.26142. [Epub ahead of print]

The therapeutic potential of cannabinoids for movement disorders.

Kluger B(1), Triolo P, Jones W, Jankovic J.

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Center, Department of Neurology, University of Colorado
School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, USA.

There is growing interest in the therapeutic potential of marijuana (cannabis)
and cannabinoid-based chemicals within the medical community and, particularly,
for neurological conditions. This interest is driven both by changes in the legal
status of cannabis in many areas and increasing research into the roles of
endocannabinoids within the central nervous system and their potential as
symptomatic and/or neuroprotective therapies. We review basic science as well as 
preclinical and clinical studies on the therapeutic potential of cannabinoids
specifically as it relates to movement disorders. The pharmacology of cannabis is
complex, with over 60 neuroactive chemicals identified to date. The
endocannabinoid system modulates neurotransmission involved in motor function,
particularly within the basal ganglia. Preclinical research in animal models of
several movement disorders have shown variable evidence for symptomatic benefits,
but more consistently suggest potential neuroprotective effects in several animal
models of Parkinson's (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Clinical observations
and clinical trials of cannabinoid-based therapies suggests a possible benefit of
cannabinoids for tics and probably no benefit for tremor in multiple sclerosis or
dyskinesias or motor symptoms in PD. Data are insufficient to draw conclusions
regarding HD, dystonia, or ataxia and nonexistent for myoclonus or RLS. Despite
the widespread publicity about the medical benefits of cannabinoids, further
preclinical and clinical research is needed to better characterize the
pharmacological, physiological, and therapeutic effects of this class of drugs in
movement disorders. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25649017  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


213. Sci Transl Med. 2015 Feb 4;7(273):273ra13. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3010314.

In vivo tracking of T cells in humans unveils decade-long survival and activity
of genetically modified T memory stem cells.

Biasco L(1), Scala S(2), Basso Ricci L(3), Dionisio F(3), Baricordi C(3),
Calabria A(3), Giannelli S(3), Cieri N(4), Barzaghi F(5), Pajno R(5), Al-Mousa
H(6), Scarselli A(7), Cancrini C(7), Bordignon C(8), Roncarolo MG(2), Montini
E(3), Bonini C(4), Aiuti A(9).

Author information: 
(1)San Raffaele Telethon Institute for Gene Therapy (TIGET), Division of
Regenerative Medicine, Stem Cells, and Gene Therapy, Istituti di Ricovero e Cura 
a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS) San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan 20132,
Italy. luca.biasco@hsr.it a.aiuti@hsr.it. (2)San Raffaele Telethon Institute for 
Gene Therapy (TIGET), Division of Regenerative Medicine, Stem Cells, and Gene
Therapy, Istituti di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS) San Raffaele
Scientific Institute, Milan 20132, Italy. Vita-Salute San Raffaele University,
Milan 20132, Italy. (3)San Raffaele Telethon Institute for Gene Therapy (TIGET), 
Division of Regenerative Medicine, Stem Cells, and Gene Therapy, Istituti di
Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS) San Raffaele Scientific
Institute, Milan 20132, Italy. (4)IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan 
20132, Italy. (5)Pediatric Immunohematology and Stem Cell Programme, IRCCS San
Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan 20132, Italy. (6)King Faisal Specialist
Hospital & Research Centre, Riyadh 11211, Saudi Arabia. (7)Department of
Pediatrics, Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù and University of Rome "Tor
Vergata," Rome 00165, Italy. (8)Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan 20132,
Italy. (9)Department of Pediatrics, Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù and
University of Rome "Tor Vergata," Rome 00165, Italy. TIGET, Pediatric
Immunohematology and Stem Cell Programme, San Raffaele Scientific Institute,
Milan 20132, Italy. luca.biasco@hsr.it a.aiuti@hsr.it.

A definitive understanding of survival and differentiation potential in humans of
T cell subpopulations is of paramount importance for the development of effective
T cell therapies. In particular, uncovering the dynamics in vivo in humans of the
recently described T memory stem cells (TSCM) would be crucial for therapeutic
approaches that aim at taking advantage of a stable cellular vehicle with
precursor potential. We exploited data derived from two gene therapy clinical
trials for an inherited immunodeficiency, using either retrovirally engineered
hematopoietic stem cells or mature lymphocytes to trace individual T cell clones 
directly in vivo in humans. We compared healthy donors and bone
marrow-transplanted patients, studied long-term in vivo T cell composition under 
different clinical conditions, and specifically examined TSCM contribution
according to age, conditioning regimen, disease background, cell source,
long-term reconstitution, and ex vivo gene correction processing. High-throughput
sequencing of retroviral vector integration sites (ISs) allowed tracing the fate 
of more than 1700 individual T cell clones in gene therapy patients after
infusion of gene-corrected hematopoietic stem cells or mature lymphocytes. We
shed light on long-term in vivo clonal relationships among different T cell
subtypes, and we unveiled that TSCM are able to persist and to preserve their
precursor potential in humans for up to 12 years after infusion of gene-corrected
lymphocytes. Overall, this work provides high-resolution tracking of T cell fate 
and activity and validates, in humans, the safe and functional decade-long
survival of engineered TSCM, paving the way for their future application in
clinical settings.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

PMID: 25653219  [PubMed - in process]


214. World J Surg Oncol. 2015 Feb 4;13(1):18. [Epub ahead of print]

Laparoscopic surgery contributes more to nutritional and immunologic recovery
than fast-track care in colorectal cancer.

Xu D, Li J, Song Y, Zhou J, Sun F, Wang J, Duan Y, Hu Y, Liu Y, Wang X, Sun L, Wu
L, Ding K.

sBackgroundMany clinical trials had repeatedly shown that fast-track
perioperative care and laparoscopic surgery are both preferred in the treatment
of colorectal cancer. But few studies were designed to explore the diverse
biochemical impacts of the two counterparts on human immunologic and nutritional 
status.MethodsNinety-two cases of colorectal cancer patients meeting the
inclusion criteria were randomized to four groups: laparoscopy with fast-track
treatment (LAFT); open surgery with fast-track treatment (OSFT); laparoscopy with
conventional treatment (LAC); open surgery with conventional treatment (OSC).
Peripheral blood tests including nutritional factors (albumin, prealbumin, and
transferrin), humoral immunologic factors (IgG, IgM, and IgA), and cellular
immunologic factors (T and NK cells) were evaluated. Blood samples were collected
preoperatively (baseline) and 12 and 96 h after surgery (indicated as POH12 and
POH96, respectively).ResultsAlbumin, transferrin, prealbumin, and IgG levels were
the highest in the LAFT group for both POH12 and POH96 time intervals. Repeated
measures (two-way ANOVA) indicated that the difference of albumin, transferrin,
and IgG level were attributed to surgery type (P¿<¿0.05) and not perioperative
treatment (P¿>¿0.05). Only in the laparoscopy-included groups, the relative
albumin and IgG levels of POH96 were obviously higher than that of
POH12.ConclusionLaparoscopic surgery accelerated postoperative nutrition and
immune levels rising again while fast-track treatment retarded the drop of
postoperative nutrition and immune levels. Laparoscopic surgery might play a more
important role than fast-track treatment in the earlier postoperative recovery of
nutritional and immunologic status. Combined laparoscopic surgery with fast-track
treatment provided best postoperative recovery of nutrition and immune status.
These results should be further compared with the clinical outcomes of our FTMDT 
trial (clinicaltrials.gov: NCT01080547).

PMID: 25649903  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


215. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2015 Feb 3. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12646. [Epub ahead of print]

The promise of ketamine for treatment-resistant depression: current evidence and 
future directions.

DeWilde KE(1), Levitch CF, Murrough JW, Mathew SJ, Iosifescu DV.

Author information: 
(1)Mood and Anxiety Disorders Program, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai,
New York, New York.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the most disabling diseases worldwide
and is becoming a significant public health threat. Current treatments for MDD
primarily consist of monoamine-targeting agents and have limited efficacy.
However, the glutamate neurotransmitter system has recently come into focus as a 
promising alternative for novel antidepressant treatments. We review the current 
data on the glutamate NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine, which has been shown in 
clinical trials to act as a rapid antidepressant in MDD. We also examine ketamine
efficacy on dimensions of psychopathology, including anhedonia, cognition, and
suicidality, consistent with the NIMH Research Domain Criteria initiative. Other 
aspects of ketamine reviewed in this paper include safety and efficacy, different
administration methods, and the risks of misuse of ketamine outside of medical
settings. Finally, we conclude with a discussion of glutamatergic agents other
than ketamine currently being tested as novel antidepressants.

© 2015 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 25649308  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


216. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2015 Feb 3. pii: 0004867415569799. [Epub ahead of print]

Non-pharmacological strategies for treatment of inpatient depression.

Crowe M(1), Beaglehole B(2), Wells H(3), Porter R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, University of Otago, Christchurch,
Christchurch, New Zealand marie.crowe@otago.ac.nz. (2)Department of Psychological
Medicine, University of Otago, Christchurch, Christchurch, New Zealand.
(3)Specialist Mental Health Services, Canterbury District Health Board,
Christchurch, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the evidence for non-pharmacological interventions in the
treatment of moderate to severe depression in an inpatient setting.
METHOD: An integrative review of original research papers was conducted. The
electronic databases CINAHL, MEDLINE and PsychINFO were searched using the
following search terms: depression, psychosocial, psychosocial intervention,
therapy, and inpatient.
RESULTS: Twelve studies were identified in the search for
non-psychopharmacological interventions for depression commenced in an inpatient 
setting. The interventions included psychotherapies, behavioural activation, and 
chronotherapeutic interventions (controlled exposure to environmental stimuli).
These studies suggest it is possible to engage severely depressed inpatients in
structured interventions in an inpatient environment. The majority of studies
reported favourable outcomes for the interventions compared to a control, but
methodological issues were common.
CONCLUSIONS: A diverse range of treatment strategies has been identified in this 
review. These studies provide evidence that non-pharmacological treatments for
depression can be given to enhance outcomes and that research can be undertaken
in inpatient settings. Whilst the evidence base has limitations, this review also
highlights therapeutic and research opportunities in this area.

© The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists 2015.

PMID: 25648143  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


217. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Feb 3. pii: clincanres.2424.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

Higher risk of infections with PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway inhibitors in patients with 
advanced solid tumors on Phase I clinical Trials.

Rafii S(1), Roda Perez D(2), Geuna E(3), Jimenez B(3), Rihawi K(3), Capelan M(3),
Yap TA(4), Molife LR(5), Kaye SB(6), de Bono JS(7), Banerji U(8).

Author information: 
(1)institute of Cancer Sciences, university of Manchester. (2)Hematology and
Medical Oncology, Hospital Clinico, INCLIVA, University of Valencia. (3)Drug
Development Unit, The Institute for Cancer Research and the Royal Marsden NHS
Foundation Trust. (4)Drug Development Unit and Division of Clinical Studies,
Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust and The Institute of Cancer Research. (5)Drug 
Development Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital. (6)Medical Oncology, The Royal Marsden 
NHS Foundation Trust. (7)Drug Development Unit and Prostate Cancer Targeted
Therapy Group, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust and The Institute of Cancer
Research. (8)Cancer Research UK Cancer Therapeutics Unit and Drug Development
Unit, The Institute of Cancer Research & The Royal Marsden
Udai.Banerji@icr.ac.uk.

Purpose: Antitumor therapies against the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway are increasingly
used to treat cancer. Although not known to be myelosuppressive, an increased
risk of infection has been reported with rapamycin analogs. However, the risk of 
infection with new inhibitors of this pathway such as PI3K, AKT, mTORC 1/2 or
multi-kinase inhibitors is unknown. Experimental Design: In this retrospective
case-control study, we determined the incidence of infection in 432 patients
treated on 15 phase I clinical trials involving PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors vs 100
patients on 10 phase I clinical trials of non-cytotoxic single agent
non-PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors. We also collected data from 42 patients treated
with phase I trials of PI3K-AKT-mTOR and MEK inhibitors combinations and 24
patients with PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors and chemotherapy combinations. Results:
The incidence of all grade infection was significantly higher with all single
agent PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors compared to the control group (27% vs 8%
respectively, OR: 4.26, 95% CI: 1.9- 9.1, p=0.0001). The incidence of grade 3 and
4 infection was also significantly higher with PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors compared 
to the control group (10.3% vs 3%, OR: 3.74, 95% CI: 1.1- 12.4, p=0.02). Also
PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors and chemotherapy combination was associated with higher 
incidence of all grade (OR: 4.79, 95% CI: 2.0-11.2, p=0.0001) and high grade (OR:
2.87, 95% CI: 1.0-7.6, p=0.03) infection when compared with single agent
PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors. Conclusions: The increased risk of infection with
PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors should be taken into consideration during the design and
conduct of trials particularly when these agents are combined with chemotherapy
or myelosuppressive agents.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25649020  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


218. Clin Ther. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S0149-2918(15)00012-0. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.01.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Emerging New Therapies for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus:
Glucagon-like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonists.

Lindamood CA(1), Taylor JR(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Florida, College of Pharmacy, Gainesville, Florida.
(2)University of Florida, College of Pharmacy, Gainesville, Florida. Electronic
address: jtaylor@cop.ufl.edu.

PURPOSE: The goal of this article was to review the safety, efficacy, and
potential for utilization of the newly approved once-weekly glucagon-like
peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: Published articles for Phase III trials were found by performing a
MEDLINE search using the search terms exenatide, exenatide once weekly, DURATION,
albiglutide, and HARMONY as key terms. Search results were restricted by using
filters to include clinical trials in humans. A search of relevant diabetes
journals (including Diabetes Care and Diabetologia) was also performed to find
abstracts for studies that did not have complete published articles at the time
of this review.
FINDINGS: Exenatide once weekly reduced glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) by -1.0% 
to -2.0% when used as monotherapy and add-on therapy; it also provided
significant weight loss ranging from 2 to 4 kg and maintained a relatively low
risk of hypoglycemia. Albiglutide was able to reduce glycosylated hemoglobin
levels between -0.5% and -0.84% when used as monotherapy and in combination with 
other antidiabetic medications. The newest once-weekly GLP-1 receptor agonist,
dulaglutide, reduced glycosylated hemoglobin levels between -0.78% and -1.51% and
demonstrated noninferiority to once-daily liraglutide.
IMPLICATIONS: The GLP-1 receptor agonists have proven efficacy in the treatment
of type 2 diabetes and may provide patients with additional nonglycemic benefits,
including significant weight loss and decreased systolic blood pressure. The
newer once-weekly formulations are more convenient than the BID and once-daily
medications, which could improve adherence and may be more attractive to
providers and patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659912  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


219. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Feb 3;2:CD006895. [Epub ahead of print]

Probiotics for preventing acute upper respiratory tract infections.

Hao Q(1), Dong BR, Wu T.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Geriatrics and Gerontology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University,
No. 37, Guo Xue Xiang, Chengdu, Sichuan, China, 610041.

BACKGROUND: Probiotics may improve a person's health by regulating their immune
function. Some trials have shown that probiotic strains can prevent respiratory
infections. Even though the previous version of our review showed benefits of
probiotics for acute upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs), several new
studies have been published.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and safety of probiotics (any specified
strain or dose), compared with placebo, in the prevention of acute URTIs in
people of all ages, at risk of acute URTIs.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (2014, Issue 6), MEDLINE (1950 to July week
3, 2014), EMBASE (1974 to July 2014), Web of Science (1900 to July 2014), the
Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, which includes the China Biological
Medicine Database (from 1978 to July 2014), the Chinese Medicine Popular Science 
Literature Database (from 2000 to July 2014) and the Masters Degree Dissertation 
of Beijing Union Medical College Database (from 1981 to July 2014). We also
searched the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials
Registry Platform (ICTRP) and ClinicalTrials.gov for completed and ongoing trials
on 31 July 2014.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing probiotics with
placebo to prevent acute URTIs.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed the
eligibility and quality of trials, and extracted data using the standard
methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane Collaboration.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 13 RCTs, although we could only extract data to
meta-analyse 12 trials, which involved 3720 participants including children,
adults (aged around 40 years) and older people. We found that probiotics were
better than placebo when measuring the number of participants experiencing
episodes of acute URTI (at least one episode: odds ratio (OR) 0.53; 95%
confidence interval (CI) 0.37 to 0.76, P value < 0.001, low quality evidence; at 
least three episodes: OR 0.53; 95% CI 0.36 to 0.80, P value = 0.002, low quality 
evidence); the mean duration of an episode of acute URTI (mean difference (MD)
-1.89; 95% CI -2.03 to -1.75, P value < 0.001, low quality evidence); reduced
antibiotic prescription rates for acute URTIs (OR 0.65; 95% CI 0.45 to 0.94,
moderate quality evidence) and cold-related school absence (OR 0.10; 95% CI 0.02 
to 0.47, very low quality evidence). Probiotics and placebo were similar when
measuring the rate ratio of episodes of acute URTI (rate ratio 0.83; 95% CI 0.66 
to 1.05, P value = 0.12, very low quality evidence) and adverse events (OR 0.88; 
95% CI 0.65 to 1.19, P value = 0.40, low quality evidence). Side effects of
probiotics were minor and gastrointestinal symptoms were the most common. We
found that some subgroups had a high level of heterogeneity when we conducted
pooled analyses and the evidence level was low or very low quality.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Probiotics were better than placebo in reducing the number 
of participants experiencing episodes of acute URTI, the mean duration of an
episode of acute URTI, antibiotic use and cold-related school absence. This
indicates that probiotics may be more beneficial than placebo for preventing
acute URTIs. However, the quality of the evidence was low or very low.

PMID: 25644978  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


220. Dermatol Ther. 2015 Feb 3. doi: 10.1111/dth.12207. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatment of thromboangiitis obliterans (Buerger's disease) with high-potency
vasodilators.

Jiménez-Gallo D(1), Albarrán-Planelles C, Arjona-Aguilera C, Blanco-Sánchez G,
Rodríguez-Mateos ME, Linares-Barrios M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Hospital Universitario Puerta del Mar, Cadiz,
Spain.

Thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO) or Buerger's disease is a vascular inflammatory 
thrombotic occlusive and segmental disease affecting distal small and
medium-sized arteries of the limbs. Tobacco is the main trigger factor and
avoiding it is the main treatment. Frequently, it is necessary to use
high-potency vasodilators, such as iloprost, bosentan, sildenafil, or
alprostadil, to relieve symptoms and reduce the risk of amputation. Iloprost is
the only one that has been shown to be effective in randomized clinical trials.
We report the third case of TAO treated with sildenafil and a new case treated
with bosentan. This condition can be diagnosed and treated by a dermatologist. We
would like to highlight the excellent clinical response despite the fact that
patients continued to smoke. This finding may have important therapeutic
implications because early treatment may prevent amputation and can be effective 
even during the process of giving up smoking.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25649782  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


221. Eur J Cancer. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S0959-8049(15)00003-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejca.2014.12.014. [Epub ahead of print]

Glioblastoma in England: 2007-2011.

Brodbelt A(1), Greenberg D(2), Winters T(3), Williams M(4), Vernon S(5), Collins 
VP(6); (UK) National Cancer Information Network Brain Tumour Group.

Author information: 
(1)The Walton Centre NHS Foundation Trust, Lower Lane, Liverpool L9 7LJ, UK.
Electronic address: abrodbelt@doctors.org.uk. (2)National Cancer Registration
Service, Public Health England, Unit C, Magog Court, Hinton Way, Cambridge CB22
3AD, UK. Electronic address: David.greenberg@nhs.net. (3)Knowledge and
Intelligence (East), Public Health England, IPH, University Forvie Site, Robinson
Way, Cambridge CB2 0SR, UK. Electronic address: Tim.winters@nhs.net. (4)Imperial 
College Healthcare NHS Trust, Charing Cross Hospital, Fulham Palace Rd, London W6
8RF, UK. Electronic address: Matthew.williams2@imperial.nhs.uk. (5)National
Cancer Registration Service, Public Health England, Unit C, Magog Court, Hinton
Way, Cambridge CB22 3AD, UK. Electronic address: Sally.vernon@ecric.nhs.uk.
(6)Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge University
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK. Electronic
address: Vpc20@cam.ac.uk.

AIMS: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive primary malignant
brain tumour in adults, with a poor prognosis. Changing treatment paradigms
suggest improved outcome, but whole nation data for England is scarce. The aim of
this report is to examine the incidence of patients with glioblastoma in England,
and to assess the influence of gender, age, geographical region and treatment on 
outcome.
METHODS: A search strategy encompassing all patients coded with GBM and treated
from January 2007 to December 2011 was obtained from data linkage between the
National Cancer Registration Service and Hospital Episode Statistics for England.
RESULTS: There were 10,743 patients coded with GBM in this 5-year period (6451
male, 4292 female), giving an overall national age standardised incidence of
4.64/100,000/year. Incidence increases with age. Median survival overall was
6.1months. One, 2 and 5-year survivals, were 28.4%, 11.5% and 3.4% respectively. 
Age stratified median survivals decreased significantly (p<0.0001) with
increasing age from 16.2months for the 20-44year age group, to 7.9months for the 
45-69years, and 3.2months for 70+years. In the maximal treatment subgroup,
patients aged up to 69years had a median survival of 14.9months. Patients over
60years were less likely to receive maximal combination treatment but median
survival was better with maximal treatment at all ages.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall outcome for patients with GBM remains poor. However,
aggressive treatment at every age group is associated with extended survival
similar to that described in clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661102  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


222. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015 Feb 3:1-10. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetically modified chondrocytes expressing TGF-β1: a revolutionary treatment
for articular cartilage damage?

Elmallah RK(1), Cherian JJ, Jauregui JJ, Pierce TP, Beaver WB, Mont MA.

Author information: 
(1)Rubin Institute for Advanced Orthopedics, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, Center 
for Joint Preservation and Replacement , 2401 West Belvedere Avenue, Baltimore,
MD 21215 , USA +1 410 601 8500 ; +1 410 601 8501 ; mmont@lifebridgehealth.org ;
rhondamont@aol.com.

Introduction: Currently, joint arthroplasty remains the only definitive
management of osteoarthritis, while other treatment modalities only provide
temporary and symptomatic relief. The use of genetically engineered chondrocytes 
is currently undergoing clinical trials. Specifically, it has been designed to
induce cartilage growth and differentiation in patients with degenerative
arthritis, with the aim to play a curative role in the disease process. Areas
covered: This treatment involves the incorporation of TGF-β1, which has been
determined to play an influential role in chondrogenesis and extracellular matrix
synthesis. Using genetic manipulation and viral transduction, TGF-β1 is
incorporated into human chondrocytes and administered in a minimally invasive
fashion directly to the affected joint. Following a database literature search,
we evaluated the current evidence on this product and its outcomes. Furthermore, 
we also briefly reviewed other treatments developed for chondrogenesis and
cartilage regeneration for comparison. Expert opinion: This treatment method has 
sustained positive effects on functional outcomes and cartilage growth in initial
trials. It allows administration in a minimally invasive manner that does not
require extended recovery time. Although several treatment modalities are
currently under investigation and appear promising, we hope that these effects
can be sustained in further studies. Ultimately, we anticipate that the results
may be reproducible in many clinical settings and allow us to effectively treat
cartilage damage in patients with degenerative arthritis.

PMID: 25645308  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


223. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2015 Feb 3:1-12. [Epub ahead of print]

Assessing safety and efficacy of sofosbuvir for the treatment of hepatitis C.

D'Ambrosio R(1), Aghemo A, Colombo M.

Author information: 
(1)Università degli Studi di Milano, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico , Milano, Via F. Sforza
35, 20122 Milan , Italy +39 0255035432 ; +39 0250320410 ;
roberta.dambrosio@unimi.it.

Introduction: IFN-free regimens with direct antiviral agents (DAAs) against
hepatitis C virus (HCV) are likely to greatly expand patients' access and
response to hepatitis C therapy, while safety and tolerability of treatments seem
substantially improved. Sofosbuvir (SOF), a NS5B nucleotide polymerase inhibitor 
with pan-genotypic activity and a high-barrier to resistance, has been approved
by FDA and EMA in an all oral combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C with
ribavirin (RBV) alone, or in combination with either pegylated interferon/RBV or 
other DAAs. Areas covered: This paper provides an overview of SOF-based therapy
in chronic hepatitis C as it emerges from the published clinical trials. Data on 
special populations are included (i.e., decompensated patients, patients on liver
transplant waiting lists, patients with renal impairment). The data has been
analyzed according to the different HCV-genotypes and comprehensively covers both
safety and efficacy treatment profiles. Expert opinion: Clinical trials have
highlighted the safety and efficacy of SOF-based regimens, leading to the rapid
approval of this therapy and its incorporation in the recommendations of the
international societies on treatment of HCV infection. However, additional data
are still needed to optimize both combination therapies' efficacy and duration in
some categories of patients who have been under-represented in the registration
trials.

PMID: 25645644  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


224. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2015 Feb 3:1-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Suicide and epilepsy: do antiepileptic drugs increase the risk?

Mula M(1), Sander JW.

Author information: 
(1)St George's Hospital, Atkinson Morley Regional Neuroscience Centre, Epilepsy
Group , London , UK.

Introduction: Years after the US FDA issued an alert on an increased risk of
suicide ideation and behavior in people with epilepsy treated with antiepileptic 
drugs (AEDs), this issue still remains controversial. The FDA alert was based on 
a meta-analysis of clinical trials of AEDs in all indications. Areas covered: We 
discuss major methodological problems of this meta-analysis. Available evidence
coming from the published studies is also discussed highlighting that the
majority of them are also affected by major methodological limitations, which do 
not allow an absolute conclusion. Expert opinion: Suicide in epilepsy is a
complex phenomenon but most agree that suicide rates are higher in people with
epilepsy when compared to the general population. Screening for suicide seems to 
be appropriate and well-designed prospective studies are urgently needed in order
to clarify fully a possible role of AEDs.

PMID: 25645424  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


225. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 Feb 3:1-14. [Epub ahead of print]

Investigational drugs for the treatment of spinal cord injury: review of
preclinical studies and evaluation of clinical trials from Phase I to II.

Nagoshi N(1), Fehlings MG.

Author information: 
(1)University Health Network, Toronto Western Hospital, Krembil Neuroscience
Center , Toronto, ON M5T 2S8 , Canada +1 416 603 5229 ; +1 416 603 6274 ;
Michael.Fehlings@uhn.ca.

Introduction: Efforts in basic research have clarified mechanisms involved in
spinal cord injury (SCI), and resulted in positive findings using experimental
treatments including cell transplantation and drug administration preclinically. 
Based on accumulated results, various clinical trials have begun for human SCI.
Areas covered: In this review, the authors focus on five investigational drugs:
riluzole, minocycline, Rho protein antagonist, magnesium chloride in polyethylene
glycol formulation, and basic fibroblast growth factor. All drugs have
established safety and tolerability from Phase I clinical trials, and are now in 
Phase II. They have been proven to have neuroprotective and/or neuroregenerative 
effects in animal models of SCI. Expert opinion: To date, diverse drugs have been
translated into clinical trials, but none have reached clinical application. A
key gap was the lack of reliable biomarkers for SCI to fast-track Phase I/II
trials. Furthermore, problems were often due to lack of adequate outcome
assessments for both animal models and SCI patients. In order to advance clinical
trials more quickly and with greater success, more clinically relevant animal
models should be used in basic research. Clinically, it is indispensable to use
appropriate outcome measurements and to construct a wide network among clinical
centers to validate the efficacy of drugs.

PMID: 25645889  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


226. Expert Rev Neurother. 2015 Feb 3:1-12. [Epub ahead of print]

Curcumin as a putative antidepressant.

Seo HJ(1), Wang SM, Han C, Lee SJ, Patkar AA, Masand PS, Pae CU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The Catholic University of Korea, College of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Due to inadequate efficacy of antidepressants, various new chemical entities and 
agents of natural origin have been tested for therapeutic efficacy both alone and
to augment existing antidepressants, producing varied clinical results. This
article summarizes the basic properties of curcumin and its mechanisms of action,
with specific emphasis on the etiopathogenesis of depression, preclinical and
current clinical evidence, and future research directions, to better understand
the possible role of curcumin in treating depression. Curcumin may have
antidepressant activities with diverse mechanisms of action involving primarily
neurotransmitters, transcription pathways, neurogenesis, the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and inflammatory and immune pathways, as
demonstrated in various animal and human studies. Current published randomized
clinical trials suggest a small, non-significant benefit of curcumin for major
depression. More adequately-powered and methodologically improved studies are
mandatory.

PMID: 25644944  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


227. Hautarzt. 2015 Feb 3. [Epub ahead of print]

[Status quo and prospects for systemic therapy of atopic dermatitis : Biologics
ante portas.]

[Article in German]

Biedermann T(1), Werfel T.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Dermatologie und Allergologie, Biedersteinerstraße
29, 80802, München, Deutschland.

Currently the only approved drug available for the systemic therapy of atopic
dermatitis is cyclosporine; however, based on current data from published
studies, azathioprine, methotrexate, and mycophenolate mofetil or mycophenolic
acid can be administered off-label. Some biologics on the market that have been
approved for other indications (ustekinumab, rituximab, tocilizumab) have been
successfully used in a few patients with atopic dermatitis. The world's first
prospective controlled studies with the biologic human anti-IL4R antibody
dupilumab for the indication "atopic dermatitis" were published in 2014. These
motivated (1) to extend the studies to dupilumab and (2) to clinically test
antagonization of other target molecules of TH2 polarized, atopic inflammation,
e.g., IL-13, IL-31, IL-22, TSLP, and CRTH2. A number of clinical trials are
currently recruiting in this area and will provide interesting new insights for
future therapeutic approaches in atopic dermatitis.

PMID: 25645542  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


228. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2015 Feb 3. [Epub ahead of print]

Fenestrated endografts: are they the solution for visceral and aortic neck
issues?"

Purcell S(1), Bohannon WT, Atkins M.

Author information: 
(1)Baylor Scott & White Healthcare / Texas A&M Health Science Center, Temple,
Texas. USA.

Many patients with short neck or no neck juxtarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms
are not candidates for open surgical repair. Current treatment options for such
patients include fenestrated endograft repair, placement of chimneys and snorkels
(parallel grafts) or use of physician modified endografts. The purpose of this
review is to examine the reported literature on the use of fenestrated aortic
endografts for juxtarenal aortic aneurysms. A systematic review of the
literature, to include clinical trials, case series, and meta--analyses was
performed to report the outcomes of the use of fenestrated endovascular repair.
The early and midterm results of fenestrated endografting is quite promising. As 
expected with real world use of the device, many patients do not meet the
inclusion criteria of the initial pivotal clinical trials. As such, the results
are not as good with respect to morbidity, re--intervention, and device related
problems. However, despite such issues, in this difficult to treat population the
initial and mid--term results as outlined below are quite acceptable. Fenestrated
endografts will continue to gain acceptance and will become the treatment of
choice for juxtarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms in the future.

PMID: 25644830  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


229. J Control Release. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S0168-3659(15)00091-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.02.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Polypeptide-based nanogels co-encapsulating a synergistic combination of
doxorubicin with 17-AAG show potent anti-tumor activity in ErbB2-driven breast
cancer models.

Desale SS(1), Raja SM(2), Kim JO(3), Mohapatra B(4), Soni KS(1), Luan H(4),
Williams SH(4), Bielecki TA(4), Feng D(4), Storck M(4), Band V(5), Cohen SM(6),
Band H(7), Bronich TK(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Center for Drug Delivery and
Nanomedicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC), Omaha, NE 68198,
United States. (2)Eppley Institute for Research in Cancer and Allied Diseases,
UNMC, United States. Electronic address: srikumar.raja@northwestern.edu.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Center for Drug Delivery and
Nanomedicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC), Omaha, NE 68198,
United States; College of Pharmacy, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan 712-749, South
Korea. (4)Eppley Institute for Research in Cancer and Allied Diseases, UNMC,
United States. (5)Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Anatomy, UNMC, United 
States. (6)Department of Pathology and Microbiology, UNMC, United States.
(7)Eppley Institute for Research in Cancer and Allied Diseases, UNMC, United
States. Electronic address: hband@unmc.edu. (8)Department of Pharmaceutical
Sciences and Center for Drug Delivery and Nanomedicine, University of Nebraska
Medical Center (UNMC), Omaha, NE 68198, United States. Electronic address:
tbronich@unmc.edu.

ErbB2-driven breast cancers constitute 20-25% of the cases diagnosed within the
USA. The humanized anti-ErbB2 monoclonal antibody, Trastuzumab (Herceptin™;
Genentech), with chemotherapy is the current standard of treatment. Novel agents 
and strategies continue to be explored, given the challenges posed by
Trastuzumab-resistance development in most patients. The HSP90 inhibitor,
17-allylaminodemethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG), which induces ErbB2 degradation and 
attenuates downstream oncogenic signaling, is one such agent that showed
significant promise in early phase I and II clinical trials. Its low water
solubility, potential toxicities and undesirable side effects observed in
patients, partly due to the Cremophor-based formulation, have been discouraging
factors in the advancement of this promising drug into clinical use.
Encapsulation of 17-AAG into polymeric nanoparticle formulations, particularly in
synergistic combination with conventional chemotherapeutics, represents an
alternative approach to overcome these problems. Herein, we report an efficient
co-encapsulation of 17-AAG and doxorubicin, a clinically well-established and
effective modality in breast cancer treatment, into biodegradable and
biocompatible polypeptide-based nanogels. Dual drug-loaded nanogels displayed
potent cytotoxicity in a breast cancer cell panel and exerted selective
synergistic anticancer activity against ErbB2-overexpressing breast cancer cell
lines. Analysis of ErbB2 degradation confirmed efficient 17-AAG release from
nanogels with activity comparable to free 17-AAG. Furthermore, nanogels
containing both 17-AAG and doxorubicin exhibited superior antitumor efficacy in
vivo in an ErbB2-driven xenograft model compared to the combination of free
drugs. These studies demonstrate that polypeptide-based nanogels can serve as
novel nanocarriers for encapsulating 17-AAG along with other chemotherapeutics,
providing an opportunity to overcome solubility issues and thereby exploit its
full potential as an anti-cancer agent.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25660204  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


230. J Immunol Methods. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S0022-1759(15)00020-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jim.2015.01.008. [Epub ahead of print]

Recommendations for the Evaluation of Specimen Stability for Flow Cytometric
Testing During Drug Development.

Brown L(1), Green CL(2), Jones N(3), Stewart JJ(4), Fraser S(5), Howell K(6), Xu 
Y(7), Hill CG(8), Wiwi CA(9), White WI(10), O'Brien PJ(11), Litwin V(12).

Author information: 
(1)Flow Contract Site Laboratory, LLC, 13029 NE 126th PL, Unit A229, Kirkland, WA
98034, USA. Electronic address: lynette.brown@fcslaboratory.com. (2)Amgen, Inc., 
1 Amgen Center Drive, Mailstop 30E-3-C, Thousand Oaks, CA, 91320, USA. Electronic
address: cherieg@amgen.com. (3)LabCorp Clinical Trials, Laboratory Corporation of
America® Holdings, 201 Summit View Dr., Suite 200, Brentwood, TN 37027, USA.
Electronic address: jonesn2@labcorp.com. (4)Flow Contract Site Laboratory, LLC,
13029 NE 126th PL, Unit A229, Kirkland, WA 98034, USA. Electronic address:
jennifer.stewart@fcslaboratory.com. (5)Pfizer, Eastern Point Rd., Groton, CT,
06340, USA. Electronic address: Stephanie.Fraser@pfizer.com. (6)Flow Contract
Site Laboratory, LLC, 13029 NE 126th PL, Unit A229, Kirkland, WA 98034, USA.
Electronic address: krh2385@gmail.com. (7)Clinical Laboratory Sciences, DSAR,
Sanofi, One The Mountain Road, Framingham, MA 01701, USA. Electronic address:
Yuanxin.Xu@genzyme.com. (8)16 Rolling Lane, Hamilton, NJ, 08690, USA. Electronic 
address: 4cghill@gmail.com. (9)Celgene Cellular Therapeutics, 7 Powder Horn
Drive, Warren, NJ, 07059, USA. Electronic address: cwiwi@celgene.com.
(10)Medimmune, LLC, One MedImmune Way, Gaithersburg, MD, 20878, USA. Electronic
address: whitew@medimmune.com. (11)Pfizer Worldwide Research and Development,
10724 Science Center Drive, San Diego, CA, 92121, USA. Electronic address:
Peter.OBrien2@pfizer.com. (12)Covance Central Laboratory Services, 8211 SciCor
Dr, Indianapolis, IN 46214, USA. Electronic address: virginia.litwin@covance.com.

The objective of this manuscript is to present an approach for evaluating
specimen stability for flow cytometric methods used during drug development.
While this approach specifically addresses stability assessment for assays to be 
used in clinical trials with centralized testing facilities, the concepts can be 
applied to any stability assessment for flow cytometric methods. The proposed
approach is implemented during assay development and optimization, and includes
suggestions for designing a stability assessment plan, data evaluation and
acceptance criteria. Given that no single solution will be applicable in all
scenarios, this manuscript offers the reader a roadmap for stability assessment
and is intended to guide the investigator during both the method development
phase and in the experimental design of the validation plan.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25662815  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


231. J Orthop Surg Res. 2015 Feb 3;10(1):24. [Epub ahead of print]

Determining the clinical importance of treatment benefits for interventions for
painful orthopedic conditions.

Katz NP, Paillard FC, Ekman E.

The overarching goals of treatments for orthopedic conditions are generally to
improve or restore function and alleviate pain. Results of clinical trials are
generally used to determine whether a treatment is efficacious; however, a
statistically significant improvement may not actually be clinically important,
i.e., meaningful to the patient. To determine whether an intervention has
produced clinically important benefits requires a two-step process: first,
determining the magnitude of change considered clinically important for a
particular measure in the relevant population and, second, applying this
yardstick to a patient¿s data to determine whether s/he has benefited from
treatment. Several metrics have been devised to quantify clinically important
differences, including the minimum clinically important difference (MCID) and
clinically important difference (CID). Herein, we review the methods to generate 
the MCID and other metrics and their use and interpretation in clinical trials
and practice. We particularly highlight the many pitfalls associated with the
generation and utilization of these metrics that can impair their correct use.
These pitfalls include the fact that different pain measures yield different
MCIDs, that efficacy in clinical trials is impacted by various factors
(population characteristics, trial design), that the MCID value is impacted by
the method used to calculate it (anchor, distribution), by the type of anchor
chosen and by the definition (threshold) of improvement. The MCID is also
dependent on the population characteristics such as disease type and severity,
sex, age, etc. For appropriate use, the MCID should be applied to changes in
individual subjects, not to group changes. The MCID and CID are useful tools to
define general guidelines to determine whether a treatment produces clinically
meaningful effects. However, the many pitfalls associated with these metrics
require a detailed understanding of the methods to calculate them and their
context of use. Orthopedic surgeons that will use these metrics need to carefully
understand them and be aware of their pitfalls.

PMID: 25645576  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


232. J Pain. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S1526-5900(15)00047-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jpain.2015.01.009.
[Epub ahead of print]

Instruments to identify prescription medication misuse, abuse, and related events
in clinical trials: an ACTTION systematic review.

Smith SM(1), Paillard F(2), McKeown A(3), Burke LB(4), Edwards RR(5), Katz NP(6),
Papadopoulos EJ(7), Rappaport BA(8), Slagle A(7), Strain EC(9), Wasan AD(10),
Turk DC(11), Dworkin RH(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address:
shannon1_smith@urmc.rochester.edu. (2)Focus Biocom, Durango, CO, USA.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. (4)LORA Group, LLC, Royal Oak, MD, USA. (5)Brigham
& Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. (6)Tufts University, Boston, MA, USA;
Analgesic Solutions, Natick, MA, USA. (7)United States Food and Drug
Administration, Silver Spring, MD, USA. (8)Arlington, VA, USA. (9)Department of
Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. (10)Departments of Anesthesiology and Psychiatry, University 
of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (11)Department of
Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(12)Department of Anesthesiology and Center for Human Experimental Therapeutics, 
University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA;
Department of Neurology and Center for Human Experimental Therapeutics,
University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA.

Measurement of inappropriate medication use events (e.g., abuse, misuse) in
clinical trials is important in characterizing a medication's abuse potential.
However, no "gold standard" assessment of inappropriate use events in clinical
trials has been identified. In this systematic review, we examine the measurement
properties (i.e., content validity, cross-sectional reliability and construct
validity, longitudinal construct validity, ability to detect change, and
responder definitions) of instruments assessing inappropriate use of opioid and
non-opioid prescription medications to identify any that meet U.S. and European
regulatory agencies' rigorous standards for outcome measures in clinical trials. 
Sixteen published instruments were identified, most of which were not designed
for the selected concept of interest and context of use. For this reason, many
instruments were found to lack adequate content validity (or documentation of
content validity) to evaluate current inappropriate medication use events; for
example, evaluating inappropriate use across the lifespan rather than current
use, including items that did not directly assess inappropriate use (e.g.,
questions about anger), or failing to capture information pertinent to
inappropriate use events (e.g., intention, route of administration). In addition,
the psychometric data across all instruments were generally limited in scope. A
further limitation is the heterogeneous, non-standardized use of inappropriate
medication use terminology. These observations suggest that available instruments
are not well suited for assessing current inappropriate medication use within the
specific context of clinical trials. Further effort is needed to develop reliable
and valid instruments to measure current inappropriate medication use events in
clinical trials.PERSPECTIVE: This systematic review evaluates the measurement
properties of inappropriate medication use (e.g., abuse, misuse) instruments to
determine whether any meet regulatory standards for clinical trial outcome
measures to assess abuse potential.

Copyright © 2015 American Pain Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25660826  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


233. J Psychiatry Neurosci. 2015 Feb 3;40(1):130295. doi: 10.1503/jpn.130295. [Epub
ahead of print]

A randomized double-blind crossover trial of deep brain stimulation of the
subcallosal cingulate gyrus in patients with treatment-resistant depression: a
pilot study of relapse prevention.

Puigdemont D(1), Portella M(1), Pérez-Egea R(2), Molet J(3), Gironell A(4), de
Diego-Adeliño J(1), Martín A(1), Rodríguez R(3), Àlvarez E(1), Artigas F(5),
Pérez V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental, 
Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain. (2)From the
Department of Psychiatry, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental, 
Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain. (3)Department of
Neurosurgery, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma de
Barcelona, Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Neurology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de
Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas, Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica Sant Pau,
Barcelona, Spain. (5)Department of Neurochemistry and Neuropharmacology, Institut
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques de Barcelona, IDIBAPS, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Cientificas, IDIBAPS, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de
Salud Mental, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: To date, antidepressant drugs show limited efficacy, leaving a large 
number of patients experiencing severe and persistent symptoms of major
depression. Previous open-label clinical trials have reported significant
sustained improvements with deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subcallosal
cingulate gyrus (SCG) in patients with severe, chronic treatment-resistant
depression (TRD). This study aimed to confirm the efficacy and measure the impact
of discontinuation of the electrical stimulation.
METHODS: We conducted a 6-month double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled
crossover study in implanted patients with previous severe TRD who experienced
full remission after chronic stimulation. After more than 3 months of stable
remission, patients were randomly assigned to 2 treatment arms: the ON-OFF arm,
which involved active electrode stimulation for 3 months followed by sham
stimulation for 3 months, and the OFF-ON arm, which involved sham stimulation for
3 months followed by active stimulation for 3 months. The primary outcome measure
was the difference in the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD-17) 
total score between sham and active stimulation.
RESULTS: We enrolled 5 patients in our trial. A Friedman repeated-measures
analysis of variance revealed a significant effect of treatment (χ(2)1 = 5.0, p =
0.025) in patients with higher depression scores during sham stimulation. At the 
end of active stimulation, depression was remitted in 4 of 5 patients and none of
them had experienced a relapse, whereas at the end of sham stimulation, 2
patients remained in remission, 2 relapsed and 1 showed a progressive worsening
without reaching relapse criteria.
LIMITATIONS: The small sample size limited the statistical power and external
validity.
CONCLUSION: These preliminary findings indicate that DBS of the SCG is an
effective and safe treatment for severe forms of TRD and that continuous
electrical stimulation is required to maintain therapeutic effects.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT01268137 (ClinicalTrials.gov).

PMID: 25652752  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


234. JAMA. 2015 Feb 3;313(5):471-82. doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.12.

Transfusion of plasma, platelets, and red blood cells in a 1:1:1 vs a 1:1:2 ratio
and mortality in patients with severe trauma: the PROPPR randomized clinical
trial.

Holcomb JB(1), Tilley BC(2), Baraniuk S(2), Fox EE(1), Wade CE(1), Podbielski
JM(1), del Junco DJ(1), Brasel KJ(3), Bulger EM(4), Callcut RA(5), Cohen MJ(5),
Cotton BA(1), Fabian TC(6), Inaba K(7), Kerby JD(8), Muskat P(9), O'Keeffe T(10),
Rizoli S(11), Robinson BR(12), Scalea TM(13), Schreiber MA(14), Stein DM(13),
Weinberg JA(6), Callum JL(15), Hess JR(16), Matijevic N(1), Miller CN(17), Pittet
JF(18), Hoyt DB(19), Pearson GD(20), Leroux B(21), van Belle G(22); PROPPR Study 
Group.

Collaborators: Holcomb JB, Wade CE, del Junco DJ, Fox EE, Matijevic N, Podbielski
JM, Beeler AM, Tilley BC, Baraniuk S, DeSantis SM, Zhu H, Nixon J, Seay R, Appana
SN, Yang H, Gonzalez MO, Baer L, Wang YW, Hula BS, Espino E, Nguyen A, Pawelczyk 
N, Arora-Nutall KD, Sharma R, Cardenas JC, Rahbar E, Burnett T Jr, Clark D, van
Belle G, May S, Leroux B, Hoyt D, Powell J, Sheehan K, Hubbard A, Arkin AP, Hess 
JR, Callum JL, Pittet JF, Miller CN, Cotton BA, Vincent L, Welch T, Poole T,
Pivalizza EG, Gumbert SD, Bai Y, McCarthy JJ, Noland A, Hobbs R, Bulger EM, Klotz
P, Cattin L, Warner KJ, Wilson A, Boman D, White N, Grabinsky A, Daniel-Johnson
JA, Cohen MJ, Callcut RA, Nelson M, Redick B, Conroy A, Steurer MP, Maxim PC,
Fiebig E, Moore J, Mallari E, Muskat P, Johannigman JA, Robinson BR, Branson RD, 
Gomaa D, Barczak C, Bennett S, Carey PM, Hancock H, Rodriguez C, Inaba K, Zhu JG,
Wong MD, Menchine M, Katzberg K, Henderson SO, McKeever R, Shulman IA, Nelson JM,
Tuma CW, Matsushita CY, Scalea TM, Stein DM, Shaffer CK, Wade C, Herrera AV,
Kallam S, Wade SE, Galvagno SM Jr, Fontaine MJ, Hunt JM, Cooke RK, Fabian TC,
Weinberg JA, Croce MA, Wilson S, Panzer-Baggett S, Waddle-Smith L, Flax S, Brasel
KJ, Walsh P, Milia D, Nelson A, Kaslow O, Aufderheide TP, Gottschall JL,
Carpenter E, O'Keeffe T, Rokowski LL, Denninghoff KR, Redford DT, Novak DJ, Knoll
S, Kerby JD, Bosarge PL, Pierce AT, Williams CR, Stephens SW, Wang HE, Marques
MB, Schreiber MA, Watters JM, Underwood SJ, Groat T, Newgard C, Merkel M, Scanlan
RM, Miller B, Rizoli S, Tien H, Nascimento B, Trpcic S, Sobrian-Couroux S, Reis
M, Pérez A, Belo SE, Merkley L, Colavecchia C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Translational Injury Research, Division of Acute Care Surgery,
Department of Surgery, Medical School, University of Texas Health Science Center,
Houston. (2)Division of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of
Texas Health Science Center, Houston. (3)Division of Trauma and Critical Care,
Department of Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee22Dr Brasel is now 
with the Division of Trauma, Critical Care and Acute Care Surgery, School of
Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland. (4)Division of Trauma and
Critical Care, Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, University of
Washington, Seattle. (5)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery,
School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco. (6)Division of
Trauma and Surgical Critical Care, Department of Surgery, College of Medicine,
University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis. (7)Division of Trauma and
Critical Care, University of Southern California, Los Angeles. (8)Division of
Trauma, Burns and Surgical Critical Care, Department of Surgery, School of
Medicine, University of Alabama, Birmingham. (9)Division of Trauma/Critical Care,
Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati,
Ohio23Dr Muskat is now with the Division of General Surgery, Department of
Surgery, School of Medicine, University of California, San Franc. (10)Division of
Trauma, Critical Care and Emergency Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of
Arizona, Tucson. (11)Trauma and Acute Care Surgery, St Michael's Hospital,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (12)Division of Trauma/Critical 
Care, Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati,
Cincinnati, Ohio. (13)R. Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center, Program in Trauma,
University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore. (14)Division of Trauma,
Critical Care and Acute Care Surgery, School of Medicine, Oregon Health & Science
University, Portland. (15)Sunnybrook Research Institute, Department of Clinical
Pathology, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(16)Department of Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine, University of
Washington, Seattle. (17)Department of Emergency Medicine, College of Medicine,
University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio. (18)Division of Critical Care and
Perioperative Medicine, Department of Anesthesiology, School of Medicine,
University of Alabama, Birmingham. (19)American College of Surgeons, Chicago,
Illinois. (20)Division of Cardiovascular Sciences, National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(21)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of
Washington, Seattle. (22)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
University of Washington, Seattle21Department of Environmental and Occupational
Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of Washington, Seattle.

IMPORTANCE: Severely injured patients experiencing hemorrhagic shock often
require massive transfusion. Earlier transfusion with higher blood product ratios
(plasma, platelets, and red blood cells), defined as damage control
resuscitation, has been associated with improved outcomes; however, there have
been no large multicenter clinical trials.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness and safety of transfusing patients with
severe trauma and major bleeding using plasma, platelets, and red blood cells in 
a 1:1:1 ratio compared with a 1:1:2 ratio.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Pragmatic, phase 3, multisite, randomized
clinical trial of 680 severely injured patients who arrived at 1 of 12 level I
trauma centers in North America directly from the scene and were predicted to
require massive transfusion between August 2012 and December 2013.
INTERVENTIONS: Blood product ratios of 1:1:1 (338 patients) vs 1:1:2 (342
patients) during active resuscitation in addition to all local standard-of-care
interventions (uncontrolled).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Primary outcomes were 24-hour and 30-day all-cause
mortality. Prespecified ancillary outcomes included time to hemostasis, blood
product volumes transfused, complications, incidence of surgical procedures, and 
functional status.
RESULTS: No significant differences were detected in mortality at 24 hours (12.7%
in 1:1:1 group vs 17.0% in 1:1:2 group; difference, -4.2% [95% CI, -9.6% to
1.1%]; P = .12) or at 30 days (22.4% vs 26.1%, respectively; difference, -3.7%
[95% CI, -10.2% to 2.7%]; P = .26). Exsanguination, which was the predominant
cause of death within the first 24 hours, was significantly decreased in the
1:1:1 group (9.2% vs 14.6% in 1:1:2 group; difference, -5.4% [95% CI, -10.4% to
-0.5%]; P = .03). More patients in the 1:1:1 group achieved hemostasis than in
the 1:1:2 group (86% vs 78%, respectively; P = .006). Despite the 1:1:1 group
receiving more plasma (median of 7 U vs 5 U, P < .001) and platelets (12 U vs 6
U, P < .001) and similar amounts of red blood cells (9 U) over the first 24
hours, no differences between the 2 groups were found for the 23 prespecified
complications, including acute respiratory distress syndrome, multiple organ
failure, venous thromboembolism, sepsis, and transfusion-related complications.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among patients with severe trauma and major bleeding, 
early administration of plasma, platelets, and red blood cells in a 1:1:1 ratio
compared with a 1:1:2 ratio did not result in significant differences in
mortality at 24 hours or at 30 days. However, more patients in the 1:1:1 group
achieved hemostasis and fewer experienced death due to exsanguination by 24
hours. Even though there was an increased use of plasma and platelets transfused 
in the 1:1:1 group, no other safety differences were identified between the 2
groups.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01545232.

PMID: 25647203  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


235. JMIR Res Protoc. 2015 Feb 3;4(1):e19. doi: 10.2196/resprot.3572.

Internet-based implementation of non-pharmacological interventions of the "people
getting a grip on arthritis" educational program: an international online
knowledge translation randomized controlled trial design protocol.

Brosseau L(1), Wells G, Brooks-Lineker S, Bennell K, Sherrington C, Briggs A,
Sturnieks D, King J, Thomas R, Egan M, Loew L, De Angelis G, Casimiro L, Toupin
April K, Cavallo S, Bell M, Ahmed R, Coyle D, Poitras S, Smith C, Pugh A, Rahman 
P.

Author information: 
(1)School of Rehabilitation Sciences, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of
Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada. Lucie.Brosseau@uottawa.ca.

BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) affects 2.1% of the Australian population
(1.5% males; 2.6% females), with the highest prevalence from ages 55 to over 75
years (4.4-6.1%). In Canada, RA affects approximately 0.9% of adults, and within 
30 years that is expected to increase to 1.3%. With an aging population and a
greater number of individuals with modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases, 
such as arthritis, there is an urgent need for co-care management of arthritic
conditions. The increasing trend and present shifts in the health services and
policy sectors suggest that digital information delivery is becoming more
prominent. Therefore, it is necessary to further investigate the use of online
resources for RA information delivery.
OBJECTIVE: The objective is to examine the effect of implementing an online
program provided to patients with RA, the People Getting a Grip on Arthritis for 
RA (PGrip-RA) program, using information communication technologies (ie, Facebook
and emails) in combination with arthritis health care professional support and
electronic educational pamphlets. We believe this can serve as a useful and
economical method of knowledge translation (KT).
METHODS: This KT randomized controlled trial will use a prospective randomized
open-label blinded-endpoint design to compare four different intervention
approaches of the PGrip-RA program to a control group receiving general
electronic educational pamphlets self-management in RA via email. Depending on
group allocation, links to the Arthritis Society PGrip-RA material will be
provided either through Facebook or by email. One group will receive feedback
online from trained health care professionals. The intervention period is 6
weeks. Participants will have access to the Internet-based material after the
completion of the baseline questionnaires until the final follow-up questionnaire
at 6 months. We will invite 396 patients from Canadian and Australian Arthritis
Consumers' Associations to participate using online recruitment.
RESULTS: This study will build on a pilot study using Facebook, which revealed
promising effects of knowledge acquisition/integration of the evidence-based
self-management PGrip educational program.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of online techniques to disseminate knowledge provides an
opportunity to reduce health care costs by facilitating self-management of people
with arthritis. Study design strengths include the incorporation of randomization
and allocation concealment to ensure internal validity. To avoid intergroup
contamination, the Facebook group page security settings will be set to "closed",
thus allowing only invited participants to access it. Study limitations include
the lack of participant blinding due to the characteristics of this KT randomized
controlled trial and a potential bias of recruiting patients only online, though 
this was proven effective in the previous pilot study.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry
ACTRN12614000397617; http://www.anzctr.org.au/TrialSearch.aspx (Archived by
WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6PrP0kQf8).

PMID: 25648515  [PubMed]


236. Lancet Respir Med. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S2213-2600(15)00029-6. doi:
10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00029-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Lung cancer diagnosis and staging with endobronchial ultrasound-guided
transbronchial needle aspiration compared with conventional approaches: an
open-label, pragmatic, randomised controlled trial.

Navani N(1), Nankivell M(2), Lawrence DR(3), Lock S(4), Makker H(5), Baldwin
DR(6), Stephens RJ(2), Parmar MK(2), Spiro SG(7), Morris S(8), Janes SM(9); on
behalf of the Lung-BOOST trial investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Medicine, University College London Hospital, London,
UK; Lungs for Living Research Centre, UCL Respiratory, University College London,
London, UK; Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Unit, London, UK. (2)Medical
Research Council Clinical Trials Unit, London, UK. (3)Department of
Cardiothoracic Surgery, The Heart Hospital, London, UK. (4)Department of
Respiratory Medicine, Whittington Hospital, London, UK. (5)Department of
Respiratory Medicine, North Middlesex University Hospital, London, UK.
(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nottingham University Hospital,
Nottingham, UK. (7)Department of Thoracic Medicine, University College London
Hospital, London, UK; Department of Respiratory Medicine, Royal Brompton
Hospital, London, UK. (8)Department of Applied Health Research, University
College London, London, UK. (9)Department of Thoracic Medicine, University
College London Hospital, London, UK; Lungs for Living Research Centre, UCL
Respiratory, University College London, London, UK. Electronic address:
s.janes@ucl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The diagnosis and staging of lung cancer is an important process that
identifies treatment options and guides disease prognosis. We aimed to assess
endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration as an initial
investigation technique for patients with suspected lung cancer.
METHODS: In this open-label, multicentre, pragmatic, randomised controlled trial,
we recruited patients who had undergone a CT scan and had suspected stage I to
IIIA lung cancer, from six UK centres and randomly assigned them to either
endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) or
conventional diagnosis and staging (CDS), for further investigation and staging. 
If a target node could not be accessed by EBUS-TBNA, then endoscopic
ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) was allowed as an alternative 
procedure. Randomisation was stratified according to the presence of mediastinal 
lymph nodes measuring 1 cm or more in the short axis and by recruiting centre. We
used a telephone randomisation method with permuted blocks of four generated by a
computer. Because of the nature of the intervention, masking of participants and 
consenting investigators was not possible. The primary endpoint was the
time-to-treatment decision after completion of the diagnostic and staging
investigations and analysis was by intention-to-diagnose. This trial is
registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00652769.
FINDINGS: Between June 10, 2008, and July 4, 2011, we randomly allocated 133
patients to treatment: 66 to EBUS-TBNA and 67 to CDS (one later withdrew
consent). Two patients from the EBUS-TBNA group underwent EUS-FNA. The median
time to treatment decision was shorter with EBUS-TBNA (14 days; 95% CI 14-15)
than with CDS (29 days; 23-35) resulting in a hazard ratio of 1·98, (1·39-2·82,
p<0·0001). One patient in each group had a pneumothorax from a CT-guided biopsy
sample; the patient from the CDS group needed intercostal drainage and was
admitted to hospital.
INTERPRETATION: Transbronchial needle aspiration guided by endobronchial
ultrasound should be considered as the initial investigation for patients with
suspected lung cancer, because it reduces the time to treatment decision compared
with conventional diagnosis and staging techniques.
FUNDING: UK Medical Research Council.

Copyright © 2015 Navani et al. Open Access article distributed under the terms of
CC BY. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25660225  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


237. Laryngoscope. 2015 Feb 3. doi: 10.1002/lary.25186. [Epub ahead of print]

Neurogenic cough.

Altman KW(1), Noordzij JP, Rosen CA, Cohen S, Sulica L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, Texas.

We review contemporary concepts of the pathophysiology of neurogenic cough, and
its evaluation and treatment based on scientific publications addressing
neurogenic cough. Neurogenic cough is thought to be the result of sensory
neuropathy, most commonly idiopathic. Because it is principally a sensory
phenomenon, clinical evaluation is challenging, the diagnosis most often being
made by exclusion. Identification of motor paresis, either by laryngoscopy or
laryngeal electromyography, may suggest the presence of sensory neuropathy. The
utility of amitriptyline and gabapentin has been demonstrated in randomized
clinical trials, and retrospective series and case reports have suggested
efficacy of pregabalin, baclofen, and botulinum toxin. Sensory neuropathy appears
to be an important cause of chronic refractory cough, and appears amenable to
treatment with a variety of pharmacologic agents.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: NA
Laryngoscope, 2015.

© 2015 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.

PMID: 25647253  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


238. Nutr Cancer. 2015 Feb 3:1-7. [Epub ahead of print]

Serum 25-Hydroxy Vitamin D and Survival in Advanced Colorectal Cancer: A
Retrospective Analysis.

Wesa KM(1), Segal NH, Cronin AM, Sjoberg DD, Jacobs GN, Coleton MI, Fleisher M,
Dnistrian AM, Saltz LB, Cassileth BR.

Author information: 
(1)a Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Integrative Medicine Service , New
York , New York , USA.

Higher serum 25-hydroxy vitamin D [25(OH)D] levels are associated with decreased 
colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence. In this retrospective study of Stage IV CRC
patients, we evaluate whether 25(OH)D levels at diagnosis correlate with
survival. Stored sera from carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) measurements obtained
between February 2005 and March 2006 were screened. The first 250 patients with
CEA ±30 days of Stage IV CRC diagnosis were included. Serum 25(OH)D levels were
determined and categorized as adequate ≥30 ng/mL, or deficient <30 ng/mL.
Multivariable Cox regression models controlling for albumin and Eastern
Cooperative Oncology Group performance status were used to investigate whether
higher 25(OH)D levels were associated with prolonged survival. A total of 207
patients (83%) were vitamin D-deficient (median = 21 ng/mL), with deficiencies
significantly more likely among non-Hispanic black patients (P = 0.009). Higher
levels were associated with prolonged survival in categorical variable analysis: 
adequate vs. deficient, hazard ratio = 0.61, 95% confidence interval = 0.38-0.98,
P = 0.041. A majority of newly diagnosed Stage IV CRC patients are vitamin
D-deficient. Our data suggest that higher 25(OH)D levels are associated with
better overall survival. Clinical trials to determine whether aggressive vitamin 
D repletion would improve outcomes for vitamin D-deficient CRC patients are
warranted.

PMID: 25646565  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


239. Pharmacol Res. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S1043-6618(15)00005-5. doi:
10.1016/j.phrs.2015.01.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Src Protein-Tyrosine Kinase Structure, Mechanism, and Small Molecule Inhibitors.

Roskoski R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Blue Ridge Institute for Medical Research 3754 Brevard Road, Suite 116, Box 19
Horse Shoe, North Carolina 28742-8814, United States. Electronic address:
rrj@brimr.org.

The physiological Src proto-oncogene is a protein-tyrosine kinase that plays key 
roles in cell growth, division, migration, and survival signaling pathways. From 
the N- to C-terminus, Src contains a unique domain, an SH3 domain, an SH2 domain,
a protein-tyrosine kinase domain, and a regulatory tail. The chief
phosphorylation sites of human Src include an activating pTyr419 that results
from phosphorylation in the kinase domain by an adjacent Src molecule and an
inhibitory pTyr530 in the regulatory tail that results from phosphorylation by
C-terminal Src kinase (Csk) or Chk (Csk homologous kinase). The oncogenic Rous
sarcoma viral protein lacks the equivalent of Tyr530 and is constitutively
activated. Inactive Src is stabilized by SH2 and SH3 domains on the rear of the
kinase domain where they form an immobilizing and inhibitory clamp. Protein
kinases including Src contain hydrophobic regulatory and catalytic spines and
collateral shell residues that are required to assemble the active enzyme. In the
inactive enzyme, the regulatory spine contains a kink or a discontinuity with a
structure that is incompatible with catalysis. The conversion of inactive to
active Src is accompanied by electrostatic exchanges involving the breaking and
making of distinct sets of kinase domain salt bridges and hydrogen bonds.
Src-catalyzed protein phosphorylation requires the participation of two Mg(2+)
ions. Although nearly all protein kinases possess a common K/E/D/D signature,
each enzyme exhibits its unique variations of the protein-kinase reaction
template. Bosutinib, dasatinib, and ponatinib are Src/multikinase inhibitors that
are approved by the FDA for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia and
vandetanib is approved for the treatment of medullary thyroid cancer. The Src and
BCR-Abl inhibitors saracatinib and AZD0424, along with the previous four drugs,
are in clinical trials for a variety of solid tumors including breast and lung
cancers. Both ATP and targeted therapeutic Src protein kinase inhibitors such as 
dasatinib and ponatinib make hydrophobic contacts with catalytic spine residues
and form hydrogen bonds with hinge residues connecting the small and large kinase
lobes.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25662515  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


240. Pharmacotherapy. 2015 Feb 3. doi: 10.1002/phar.1532. [Epub ahead of print]

Recent Advances in the Development of Specific Antidotes for Target-Specific Oral
Anticoagulants.

Mo Y(1), Yam FK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Western New England University College of
Pharmacy, Springfield, Massachusetts.

Warfarin, a vitamin K antagonist, has been the only orally available
anticoagulant for > 60 years. During the past decade, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration has approved several target-specific oral anticoagulants (TSOACs) 
for the prophylaxis and treatment of arterial and venous thromboembolism and
stroke prevention in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. These new
agents have several advantages over warfarin including more predictable
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, fewer food and drug interactions, and lack
of need for routine coagulation monitoring. However, unlike warfarin, currently
no antidotes are available to reverse the anticoagulant effect of TSOACs.
Specific antidotes for TSOACs may not be needed in most situations due to their
short half-life, yet the absence of antidotes for these agents is a concern,
especially in emergent situations such as life-threatening major bleeding or
nonelective major surgery. Several specific antidotes for TSOACs including
idarucizumab, andexanet alfa, and aripazine have been developed and have shown
promise in early clinical trials evaluating their efficacy and safety. In this
narrative review, the progress made in developing specific antidotes for TSOACs
is summarized based on the latest available preclinical and clinical data.

© 2015 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

PMID: 25644580  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


241. Prog Urol. 2015 Feb 3. pii: S1166-7087(15)00007-X. doi:
10.1016/j.purol.2015.01.006. [Epub ahead of print]

[Idiopathic overactive bladder and BOTOX(®): Literature review.]

[Article in French]

Gamé X(1), Karsenty G(2), Ruffion A(3), Amarenco G(4), Ballanger P(5),
Chartier-Kastler E(6), Cosson M(7), Costa P(8), Fatton B(9), Deffieux X(10), Haab
F(11), Hermieu JF(12), Le Normand L(13), Saussine C(14), Denys P(15).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'urologie, hôpital de Rangueil, 1, avenue du Professeur-Jean-Poulhès,
TSA 50032, 31059 Toulouse cedex 9, France. (2)Service de chirurgie urologique et 
transplantation rénale, CHU de la Conception, Aix-Marseille université, 147,
boulevard Baille, 13005 Marseille, France. (3)Service d'urologie, centre
hospitalier Lyon Sud, 165, chemin du Grand-Revoyet, 69495 Pierre-Bénite, France. 
(4)Service de rééducation neuro-urologique, hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, 4, rue de la
Chine, 75020 Paris, France. (5)Service d'urologie, hôpital Pellegrin, place
Amélie-Raba-Léon, 33076 Bordeaux cedex, France. (6)Service d'urologie, hôpital de
la Pitié-Salpétrière, AP-HP, 47-83, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France. 
(7)Service de gynécologie, CHRU de Lille, rue Eugène-Avinée, 59037 Lille cedex,
France. (8)Service d'urologie, CHRU Carémeau, rue du Professeur-Debré, 30029
Nîmes cedex 9, France. (9)Service de gynécologie, CHRU Carémeau, rue du
Professeur-Debré, 30029 Nîmes cedex 9, France. (10)Service de
gynécologie-obstétrique, hôpital Antoine-Béclère, AP-HP, 157, rue de la
Porte-Trivaux, 92140 Clamart, France. (11)Service d'urologie, hôpital Tenon,
AP-HP, 4, rue de la Chine, 75020 Paris, France. (12)Service d'urologie, hôpital
Bichat, AP-HP, 46, rue Henri-Huchard, 75018 Paris, France. (13)Service
d'urologie, Hôtel Dieu, CHU de Nantes, 1, place Alexis-Ricordeau, 44093 Nantes
cedex 1, France. (14)Service d'urologie, CHU, 1, place de l'Hôpital, 67000
Strasbourg, France. (15)Service de médecine physique et de réadaptation, hôpital 
Raymond-Poincaré, AP-HP, 104, boulevard Raymond-Poincaré, 92380 Garches, France. 
Electronic address: pierre.denys@rpc.aphp.fr.

AIM: Systematically review literature on the efficacy and tolerability of
botulinum toxin A (onabotulinumtoxineA, BOTOX(®), Allergan, CA, USA) in
refractory idiopathic overactive bladder (iOAB) METHODS: Pubmed search on the
efficacy, toxicity and adverse events of onabotulinumtoxinA in clinical trials
only with level 1 and 2 evidence.
RESULTS: Eleven controlled randomised trials have been selected, of which 3 phase
III trials. The studies published data of 1008 patients with refractory iOAB
treated with onabotulinumtoxineA. In the phase II and III trials, doses from 50U 
to 300U have been evaluated; more than half of the patients (n=676) with 100U. In
the 2 main phase III trials, onabotulinumtoxinA has demonstrated to be more
efficient compared to placebo on continence, symptoms and quality of live (QoL). 
Urodynamic results, reported in the phase II trials, demonstrated higher changes 
compared to placebo only from dose 100U on, although not always significant.
Adverse events (urinary retention, dysuria, urinary tract infection) were easily 
treated and did not influence patient's QoL.
CONCLUSION: Intradetrusor injections of onabotulinumtoxinA (BOTOX(®)), a
minimally-invasive procedure, seem to be efficient and well tolerated in the
treatment of refractory iOAB.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25662706  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


242. Scand J Urol. 2015 Feb 3:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison between conventional imaging (abdominal-pelvic computed tomography and
bone scan) and [(18)F]choline positron emission tomography/computed tomography
imaging for the initial staging of patients with intermediate- to high-risk
prostate cancer: A retrospective analysis.

Evangelista L(1), Cimitan M, Zattoni F, Guttilla A, Zattoni F, Saladini G.

Author information: 
(1)Radiotherapy and Nuclear Medicine Unit, Veneto Institute of Oncology IOV-IRCCS
, Padua , Italy.

Abstract Objective. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficiency of
[(18)F]fluorocholine positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FCH
PET/CT) in detecting lymph-node and bone involvement in comparison with
conventional imaging, such as abdominal-pelvic CT and bone scan, in the initial
staging of prostate cancer (PCa). Materials and methods. The study
retrospectively evaluated 48 patients who had FCH PET/CT for the initial staging 
of PCa. At the same time, 32 of the 48 patients had a bone scan and 26 of the 48 
patients had abdominal-pelvic diagnostic CT. Diagnostic performance of FCH
PET/CT, i.e. sensitivity, specificity and accuracy, was evaluated on a
per-patient basis for the whole population and then separately on a per-risk
classification, and later in comparison with conventional imaging. Histological
specimens or follow-up data were used as the standard of reference. Results. The 
overall accuracy of FCH PET/CT for lymph-node involvement was 83.3%. The
sensitivity of FCH was higher in the high-risk subset (83.3%) than in the
intermediate-risk group (33.3%), whereas FCH specificity was similar. In
comparison with dedicated CT scan, FCH PET/CT showed a higher sensitivity and a
similar specificity (46.2% vs 69.2% and 92.3% vs 92.3%, respectively). Moreover, 
the sensitivity and specificity of PET/CT were higher than those of bone scan
(100% vs 90% and 86.4% vs 77.2%, respectively). In contrast with conventional
imaging, PET/CT changed the staging of the PCa in 33.3% patients. Conclusions.
The efficiency of FCH PET/CT in detecting both bone and lymph-node involvement of
PCa at initial staging was found to be higher than that of conventional imaging. 
Prospective clinical trials are needed to confirm these findings.

PMID: 25649494  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


243. Support Care Cancer. 2015 Feb 3. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatment-related symptom management in patients with multiple myeloma: a review.

Colson K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 450 Brookline Avenue, Mayer 216, Boston, MA,
02215-5450, USA, Kathleen_Colson@dfci.harvard.edu.

PURPOSE: Recent therapeutic advancements have significantly improved overall
survival of patients with multiple myeloma (MM). As a result, the impact of
disease- and treatment-related symptoms must be managed effectively to improve
patient quality of life, given prolonged survival after diagnosis. This review
discusses current MM treatment options, effective symptom management approaches, 
and practical strategies for supportive care.
METHODS: A literature search was performed using MEDLINE/PubMed and scientific
congress databases, focusing on clinical trials, review articles, clinical
practice guidelines, and other guidance documents on treatment paradigms and
supportive care strategies in MM. Additionally, clinical practice worksheets were
developed from published sources, and nursing "pearls of wisdom" were gathered
from practical experience in the clinic.
RESULTS: Current therapeutic regimens for relapsed/refractory MM include
proteasome inhibitors (i.e., bortezomib, carfilzomib) and immunomodulatory agents
(i.e., thalidomide, lenalidomide, pomalidomide), alone or in combination with
chemotherapy or corticosteroids. Toxicities associated with agents and
combination regimens used in the treatment of MM include myelosuppression, venous
thromboembolism, peripheral neuropathy, infections, fatigue, gastrointestinal
disorders, and/or cardiac events. Treatment-specific tools and clinical
assessments can be useful for optimizing dosing and schedule adjustments to
increase therapy duration, and implementing supportive care strategies (e.g.,
growth factors, transfusional support, intravenous hydration, bisphosphonates,
antiviral therapies) to manage treatment-related symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Improved survival after MM diagnosis has led to increased patient
susceptibility to other diseases and comorbidities due to advanced age. In
addition to appropriate drug dosing and administration, effective supportive care
and health maintenance are crucial for maximizing quality of life and disease
control.

PMID: 25646616  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


244. Transfusion. 2015 Feb 3. doi: 10.1111/trf.13005. [Epub ahead of print]

The use of autologous platelet-rich plasma in the orthopedic setting.

Cohn CS(1), Lockhart E, McCullough JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota
Medical School, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

BACKGROUND: Autologous platelet-rich plasma (aPRP) is widely used with orthopedic
patients to help treat injuries to tendons, cartilage, ligaments, and muscle. A
comprehensive review of the literature was conducted to evaluate aPRP's efficacy 
and compare available methods. In addition, the production and administration of 
aPRP were explored.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A literature search was performed. Randomized
controlled clinical trials (RCTs) in orthopedic procedures on adult patients were
included and assessed for methodologic quality. The main outcomes were pain
relief, increase in function, structural integrity, and "healing" based on
various validated scales.
RESULTS: Twelve RCTs and one controlled cohort were included (four lateral
epicondylitis, two chronic Achilles tendinopathy, two anterior cruciate ligament 
injury, and five rotator cuff injuries). Four trials reported some benefit from
aPRP versus controls while eight trials found no benefit from aPRP applications
versus control. One study had too many patients withdraw from the control arm for
acceptable data interpretation. All protocols used a different aPRP formulation
or method of delivery or application.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite its popularity, there are no standardized criteria that
define aPRP. Different techniques yield wide variability in terms of platelet
count and concentration. These variations make it difficult to compare clinical
trials that use aPRP or draw conclusions concerning its clinical efficacy in
orthopedic procedures. Blood bankers have experience in the production of
standardized blood components. This expertise may be used to develop and
implement protocols for the production and administration of aPRP, as well as
quality control measures.

© 2015 AABB.

PMID: 25646697  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


245. Am J Clin Oncol. 2015 Feb 2. [Epub ahead of print]

Definitive Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) for Extracranial
Oligometastases: An International Survey of >1000 Radiation Oncologists.

Lewis SL(1), Porceddu S, Nakamura N, Palma DA, Lo SS, Hoskin P, Moghanaki D,
Chmura SJ, Salama JK.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
†Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Qld, Australia ‡Department of Radiation
Oncology, St. Luke's International Hospital, Akashicho, Chuouku, Tokyo, Japan
§London Health Sciences Centre, London, ON, Canada ∥Department of Radiation
Oncology, University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center, Cleveland, OH ¶Mount Vernon
Cancer Centre, Northwood, UK #Department of Radiation Oncology, Virginia
Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA **Department of Radiation and Cellular
Oncology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL.

PURPOSE:: Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) is often used to treat patients
with oligometastases (OM). Yet, patterns of SBRT practice for OM are unknown.
Therefore, we surveyed radiation oncologists internationally, to understand how
and when SBRT is used for OM.
METHODS:: A 25-question survey was distributed to radiation oncologists.
Respondents using SBRT for OM were asked how long they have been treating OM,
number of patients treated, organs treated, primary reason for use, doses used,
and future intentions. Respondents not using SBRT for OM were asked reasons why
SBRT was not used and intentions for future adoption. Data were analyzed
anonymously.
RESULTS:: We received 1007 surveys from 43 countries. Eighty-three percent began 
using SBRT after 2005 and greater than one third after 2010. Eighty-four percent 
cited perceived treatment response/durability as the primary reason for using
SBRT in OM patients. Commonly treated organs were lung (90%), liver (75%), and
spine (70%). SBRT dose/fractionation schemes varied widely. Most would offer a
second course to new OM. Nearly all (99%) planned to continue and 66% planned to 
increase SBRT for OM. Of those not using SBRT, 59% plan to start soon. The most
common reason for not using SBRT was lack of clinical efficacy (48%) or lack of
necessary image guidance equipment (34%).
CONCLUSIONS:: Radiation oncologists are increasingly using SBRT for OM. The main 
reason for not using SBRT for OM is a perceived lack of evidence demonstrating
clinical advantages. These data strengthen the need for robust prospective
clinical trials (ongoing and in development) to demonstrate clinical efficacy
given the widespread adoption of SBRT for OM.

PMID: 25647831  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


246. Anthropol Med. 2015 Feb 2:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Join or be excluded from biomedicine? JOINS and Post-colonial Korea.

Ma E(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Pohang University of Science and Technology, Creative IT Engineering,
Mueunjae Memorial Hall, Pohang University of Science and Technology , Cheongam-ro
77 Hyoja-dong, Namgu, Pohang , Gyeongbuk , 790784 , Republic of Korea.

This paper discusses re-emergence of Korean medicine(s) in the global context
with a focus on a natural drug JOINS, a highly contentious drug regarding its
legal status. By following through its life world, the paper contends that the
drug is the embodiment of the postcolonial anxiety that crosses the intersections
between the aspiring nation and globalizing strategies of the bio-pharmaceutical 
industry. JOINS is a natural drug prescribed to alleviate the symptoms of
degenerative arthritis. SK Chemicals, Ltd., a giant domestic pharmaceutical
company developed the drug by utilizing the knowledge of traditional pharmacopeia
and put it on the market in 2001. In the domestic market, the drug is treated as 
a prescription drug, implying that Western medicine-trained doctors (as opposed
to Korean medicine doctors) are entitled to prescribe drugs. It also indicates
that the drug has undergone a series of lab tests such as toxicity, efficacy, and
clinical trials in compliance with regulatory guidelines. However, the domestic
standards are not rigorous enough to satisfy international standards, so that it 
is exported as a nutritional supplement abroad. The government, the
pharmaceutical industry, and the Western medicine profession are happy with how
the drug stands domestically and internationally. Rather, it is Korean doctors
who try to disrupt the status quo and reclaim their rights to traditional
knowledge, who have been alienated from the pharmaceuticalization of traditional 
knowledge. Thus, the JOINS tablet embodies the complex web of modern Korean
society, professional interests, the pharmaceutical industry, and globalization.

PMID: 25641583  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


247. Anticancer Drugs. 2015 Feb 2. [Epub ahead of print]

Full-dose pemetrexed plus cisplatin combined with concurrent thoracic
radiotherapy for previously untreated advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung
cancer.

Zhang Q(1), Cai XW, Zhu ZF, Yu W, Liu Q, Feng W, Xue MC, Fu XL.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Radiation Oncology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center
bDepartment of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.

Compared with other platinum-based doublet chemotherapy, pemetrexed plus platinum
is more effective and tolerable as the first-line treatment for nonsquamous
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Thus, we examined the feasibility of using
thoracic radiotherapy combined with concurrent full-dose pemetrexed as the
first-line treatment for advanced nonsquamous NSCLC patients. From January 2009
to July 2012, 41 patients with stage IIIB or IV nonsquamous NSCLC were treated
with full-dose pemetrexed plus cisplatin as the first-line chemotherapy combined 
with concurrent thoracic radiotherapy, with or without radiotherapy for
metastases. The status of mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor was
unknown before the treatment, and no tyrosine-kinase inhibitor and cytotoxic drug
maintenance therapy were administered to the patients after the chemotherapy. The
median follow-up duration was 26.3 months (range, 5.8-57.5 months). Twenty-one
patients had stage IIIB disease (19 with stage N3-IIIB). Of the 20 patients with 
stage IV disease, 16 had oligometastases (≤5) and four had polymetastases. The
median number of chemotherapy cycles was 4. The median radiation dose was 60 Gy. 
Thirty-six patients received radical doses of radiotherapy. Toxicities were
highly tolerated. The median progression-free survival was 12 months and the
median overall survival was 32 months. The 1-, 2-, and 3-year overall survival
rates were 87.5, 67.1, and 43.4%, respectively. As the first-line treatment for
selected patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC, thoracic radiotherapy combined
with concurrent full-dose pemetrexed plus cisplatin was safe and highly
tolerable. In addition, the survival rate was encouraging. Prospective clinical
trials are needed to verify the results.

PMID: 25646743  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


248. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Feb 2. pii: AAC.04231-14. [Epub ahead of print]

Experimental resistance to drug combinations in Leishmania donovani: metabolic
and phenotypic adaptations.

Berg M(1), García-Hernández R(2), Cuypers B(3), Vanaerschot M(1), Manzano JI(2), 
Poveda JA(4), Ferragut JA(4), Castanys S(2), Dujardin JC(5), Gamarro F(6).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Molecular Parasitology, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Institute
of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium. (2)Instituto de Parasitología y
Biomedicina 'López-Neyra', CSIC, Granada, Spain. (3)Unit of Molecular
Parasitology, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Institute of Tropical Medicine, 
Antwerp, Belgium Biomedical Informatics Research Center Antwerp (Biomina),
University of Antwerp/Antwerp University Hospital, Belgium Department of
Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium
Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(4)IBMC-Universidad Miguel Hernández, Elche (Alicante), Spain. (5)Unit of
Molecular Parasitology, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Institute of Tropical 
Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium gamarro@ipb.csic.es jcdujardin@itg.be. (6)Instituto de 
Parasitología y Biomedicina 'López-Neyra', CSIC, Granada, Spain
gamarro@ipb.csic.es jcdujardin@itg.be.

Chemotherapy is, together with vector control, an essential tool for the control 
of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), but its efficacy is jeopardized by the growing
resistance and treatment failure against first-line drugs. To delay the emergence
of resistance, the use of drug combinations of existing antileishmanial agents
has been tested systematically in clinical trials for the treatment of visceral
leishmaniasis (VL). In vitro, Leishmania donovani promastigotes are able to
develop experimental resistance to several combinations of different
antileishmanial drugs, after 10 weeks of drug pressure. With an untargeted LC-MS 
metabolomics approach, we identified metabolic changes in lines experimentally
resistant to drug combinations and their respective single-resistant lines. This 
highlighted both collective metabolic changes (found in all combination
therapy-resistant (CTR) lines) and specific ones (found in certain CTR lines). We
demonstrated that single-resistant and CTR parasite cell lines show distinct
metabolic adaptations, which all converge on the same defensive mechanisms that
were experimentally validated: protection against drug-induced and external
oxidative stress and changes in membrane fluidity. The latter was only
accompanied by changes in drug uptake in the lines resistant against drug
combinations with antimonials and surprisingly, drug accumulation was higher in
these lines. Altogether, these results highlight the importance and the central
role of protection to oxidative stress in the different resistant lines.
Ultimately, these phenotypic changes could interfere with the mode of action of
all drugs that are currently used for the treatment of VL and should be taken
into account for drug development.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

PMID: 25645828  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


249. BMC Med. 2015 Feb 2;13(1):21. doi: 10.1186/s12916-014-0246-7.

Anaemia and blood transfusion in African children presenting to hospital with
severe febrile illness.

Kiguli S, Maitland K(1), George EC, Olupot-Olupot P, Opoka RO, Engoru C, Akech
SO, Nyeko R, Mtove G, Reyburn H, Levin M, Babiker AG, Gibb DM, Crawley J.

Author information: 
(1)Kilifi Clinical Trials Facility, KEMRI-Wellcome Trust Research Programme,
Nairobi, Kenya. k.maitland@imperial.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Severe anaemia in children is a leading cause of hospital admission
and a major cause of mortality in sub-Saharan Africa, yet there are limited
published data on blood transfusion in this vulnerable group.
METHODS: We present data from a large controlled trial of fluid resuscitation
(Fluid Expansion As Supportive Therapy (FEAST) trial) on the prevalence, clinical
features, and transfusion management of anaemia in children presenting to
hospitals in three East African countries with serious febrile illness
(predominantly malaria and/or sepsis) and impaired peripheral perfusion.
RESULTS: Of 3,170 children in the FEAST trial, 3,082 (97%) had baseline
haemoglobin (Hb) measurement, 2,346/3,082 (76%) were anaemic (Hb <10 g/dL), and
33% severely anaemic (Hb <5 g/dL). Prevalence of severe anaemia varied from 12%
in Kenya to 41% in eastern Uganda. 1,387/3,082 (45%) children were transfused
(81% within 8 hours). Adherence to WHO transfusion guidelines was poor. Among
severely anaemic children who were not transfused, 52% (54/103) died within
8 hours, and 90% of these deaths occurred within 2.5 hours of randomisation. By
24 hours, 128/1,002 (13%) severely anaemic children had died, compared to 36/501 
(7%) and 71/843 (8%) of those with moderate and mild anaemia, respectively. Among
children without severe hypotension who were randomised to receive fluid boluses 
of 0.9% saline or albumin, mortality was increased (10.6% and 10.5%,
respectively) compared to controls (7.2%), regardless of admission Hb level.
Repeat transfusion varied from ≤2% in Kenya/Tanzania to 6 to 13% at the four
Ugandan centres. Adverse reactions to blood were rare (0.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: Severe anaemia complicates one third of childhood admissions with
serious febrile illness to hospitals in East Africa, and is associated with
increased mortality. A high proportion of deaths occurred within 2.5 hours of
admission, emphasizing the need for rapid recognition and prompt blood
transfusion. Adherence to current WHO transfusion guidelines was poor. The high
rates of re-transfusion suggest that 20 mL/kg whole blood or 10 mL/kg packed
cells may undertreat a significant proportion of anaemic children. Future
evaluation of the impact of a larger volume of transfused blood and optimum
transfusion management of children with Hb of <6 g/dL is warranted.Please see
related article: http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12916-014-0248-5.

PMCID: PMC4313469
PMID: 25640706  [PubMed - in process]


250. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2015 Feb 2. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2014.313. [Epub ahead of
print]

Older recipient age is paradoxically associated with a lower incidence of chronic
GVHD in Thymoglobulin recipients: a retrospective study exploring risk factors
for GVHD in allogeneic transplantation with Thymoglobulin GVHD prophylaxis.

Lim AB(1), Storek J(2), Beligaswatte A(3), Collins M(4), Tacey M(5), Williamson
T(2), Mason K(6), Li E(6), Chaudhry MA(2), Russell JA(2), Daly A(2), Szer J(1),
Lewis I(3), Ritchie D(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Clinical Haematology & Bone Marrow Transplant Service, The
Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia [2] Department of
Medicine, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. (2)Department 
of Oncology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. (3)Department of
Haematology, Royal Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(4)Centre for Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre,
East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (5)Melbourne EpiCentre, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia. (6)Department of Clinical Haematology & Bone Marrow Transplant
Service, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

Thymoglobulin (TG) given with conditioning for allogeneic haematopoietic SCT
(alloHSCT) is effective in reducing the risk of acute and chronic GVHD (cGVHD).
Whether conventional risk factors for GVHD apply to TG-conditioned alloHSCT is
unknown. We retrospectively studied 356 adults from three centres who received TG
4.5 mg/kg prior to alloHSCT for haematologic malignancy. Donors were unrelated in
64%. At 3 years, OS was 61% (95% confidence interval (CI) 55-67%), cumulative
incidence of relapse was 28% (95% CI 23-33%) and non-relapse mortality was 19%
(14-24%). The cumulative incidences of grade 2-4, and grade 3-4 acute GVHD were
23% (95% CI 19-28%) and 10% (95% CI 6-13%), respectively. The cumulative
incidence of cGVHD requiring systemic immunosuppression (cGVHD-IS) at 3 years was
32% (95% CI 27-37%). On multivariate analysis, counterintuitively, recipient age 
over 40 was associated with a significantly decreased risk of cGVHD-IS (P=0.001).
We report for the first time a paradoxical association of older age with reduced 
cGVHD in TG recipients, and conclude that traditional risk factors for GVHD may
behave differently in the context of pre-transplant TG.Bone Marrow
Transplantation advance online publication, 2 February 2015;
doi:10.1038/bmt.2014.313.

PMID: 25642763  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


251. Cell Transplant. 2015 Feb 2. [Epub ahead of print]

Adipose Tissue Derived Stem Cells in Neural Regenerative Medicine.

Yeh DC, Chan TM, Harn HJ, Chiou TW, Chen HS, Lin ZS, Lin SZ.

Adipose tissue derived stem cells (ADSCs) have two essential characteristics with
regard to regenerative medicine: the convenient and efficient generation of large
numbers of multipotent cells and in vitro proliferation without a loss of
stemness. The implementation of clinical trials has prompted widespread concern
regarding the safety issues and has shifted research toward the therapeutic
efficacy of stem cells in dealing with neural degeneration in cases such as
stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's
disease, Huntington's disease, cavernous nerve injury and traumatic brain injury.
Most existing studies have reported that cell-therapies may be able to replenish 
lost cells and promote neuronal regeneration, protect neuronal survival, and play
a role in overcoming permanent paralysis and loss of sensation and the recovery
of neurological function. The mechanisms involved in determining therapeutic
capacity remain largely unknown; however, this concept can still be classified in
a methodical manner by citing current evidence. Possible mechanisms include the
following: 1) the promotion of angiogenesis, 2) the induction of neuronal
differentiation and neurogenesis, 3) reductions in reactive gliosis, 4) the
inhibition of apoptosis, 5) the expression of neurotrophic factors, 6)
immunomodulatory function, 7) and facilitating neuronal integration. In this
study, several human clinical trials using ADSCs for neuronal disorders were
investigated. It is suggested that ADSCs are one of the choices among various
stem cells for translating into clinical application in the near future.

PMID: 25647067  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


252. Cell Transplant. 2015 Feb 2. [Epub ahead of print]

Electrical Stimulation and Motor Recovery.

Young W.

In recent years, several investigators have successfully regenerated axons in
animal spinal cords without locomotor recovery. One explanation is that the
animals were not trained to use the regenerated connections. Intensive locomotor 
training improves walking recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) in people and
>90% of people with incomplete SCI recover walking with training. Although the
optimal timing, duration, intensity, and type of locomotor training are still
controversial, many investigators have reported beneficial effects of training on
locomotor function. The mechanisms by which training improves recovery are not
clear, but an attractive theory is available. In 1949, Donald Hebb proposed a
famous rule that has been paraphrased as "neurons that fire together, wire
together." This rule provided a theoretical basis for a widely accepted theory
that homosynaptic and heterosynaptic activity facilitate synaptic formation and
consolidation. In addition, the lumbar spinal cord has a locomotor center, called
the central pattern generator (CPG), which can be activated non-specifically with
electrical stimulation or neurotransmitters to produce walking. The CPG is an
obvious target to reconnect after SCI. Stimulating motor cortex, spinal cord, or 
peripheral nerves can modulate lumbar spinal cord excitability. Motor cortex
stimulation causes long term changes in spinal reflexes and synapses, increases
sprouting of the corticospinal tract, and restores skilled forelimb function in
rats. Long used to treat chronic pain, motor cortex stimuli modify lumbar spinal 
network excitability and improve lower extremity motor scores in humans.
Similarly, epidural spinal cord stimulation has long been used to treat pain and 
spasticity. Subthreshold epidural stimulation reduces the threshold for locomotor
activity. In 2011, Harkemaet al. reported lumbosacral epidural stimulation
restores motor control in chronic motor complete patients. Peripheral nerve or
functional electrical stimulation (FES) has long been used to activate sacral
nerves to treat bladder and pelvic dysfunction, and to augment motor function. In
theory, FES should facilitate synaptic formation and motor recovery after
regenerative therapies. Upcoming clinical trials provide unique opportunities to 
test the theory.

PMID: 25646771  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


253. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2015 Feb 2. doi: 10.1111/clr.12556. [Epub ahead of print]

Denosumab and osteonecrosis of the jaw. A systematic analysis of events reported 
in clinical trials.

Boquete-Castro A(1), Gómez-Moreno G, Calvo-Guirado JL, Aguilar-Salvatierra A,
Delgado-Ruiz RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacological Research in Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry,
University of Granada, Granada, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: The aims of this meta-analysis were (i) to perform a systematic
review of the relation between treatment with denosumab and the incidence of
osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) and (ii) to obtain information on dosage, first
event apparition, and treatment approaches for patients with ONJ related to
denosumab.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis of relevant
literature was performed in the PubMed, MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane databases, 
identifying randomized clinical trials that evaluate the adverse effects of
denosumab. The overall incidence rates and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for ONJ 
were calculated employing fixed- and random-effects models, according to the
heterogeneity of the studies included.
RESULTS: A total of 8963 patients with a variety of solid tumors reported in
seven randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were included in the systematic
analysis. The overall incidence of ONJ in patients with cancer receiving
denosumab was 1.7% [95% CI: 0.9-3.1%]. The use of denosumab was associated with a
significantly increased risk of ONJ in comparison with bisphosphonates
(BPs)/placebo treatment (RR 1.61, 95% CI: 1.05-2.48, P = 0.029). Subgroup
analysis based on controlled therapies demonstrated an increased risk of ONJ in
denosumab therapy, when compared with BPs (RR 1.48, 95% CI: 0.96-2.29, P = 0.078)
or placebo (RR 16.28, 95% CI: 1.68-158.05, P = 0.017). Similar results were
observed for prostate cancer (RR 3.358, 95% CI: 1.573-7.166, P = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Denosumab combined with risk factors such as dental extraction, poor
oral hygiene, use of removable apparatus, and chemotherapy may favor the
development of ONJ.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25639776  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


254. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Feb 2. doi: 10.1002/cpt.85. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeting Bruton's tyrosine kinase with ibrutinib in B-cell malignancies.

Wang Y(1), Zhang LL, Champlin RE, Wang ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, NJ.

The B-cell receptor signaling pathway, which is critical to the development and
maturation of normal B-cells, is emerging as an attractive therapeutic target in 
B-cell malignancies. Ibrutinib is a potent irreversible inhibitor of Bruton's
tyrosine kinase, a key kinase important for signal transduction in the BCR
pathway. In preclinical studies, ibrutinib potently bound to Btk, inhibited BCR
signaling, and decreased tumor cell proliferation and survival in many B-cell
malignancy models. Excellent safety and efficacy data in clinical trials have led
to FDA approval of ibrutinib for previously treated mantle cell lymphoma and
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), as well as CLL with 17p deletion. Ongoing
clinical studies have also demonstrated great potency of ibrutinib in treating
other types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma,
follicular lymphoma, and Waldenström's macroglobulinemia. Combination of
ibrutinib with chemoimmunotherapy and other promising novel agents in B-cell
malignancy therapy has also been under clinical investigation. This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

© 2015 American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.

PMID: 25669675  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


255. Clin Trials. 2015 Feb 2. pii: 1740774514568125. [Epub ahead of print]

Outreach to diversify clinical trial participation: A randomized recruitment
study.

Brown SD(1), Partee PN(2), Feng J(2), Quesenberry CP(2), Hedderson MM(2), Ehrlich
SF(2), Kiernan M(3), Ferrara A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, CA, USA 
susan.d.brown@kp.org. (2)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern
California, Oakland, CA, USA. (3)Stanford Prevention Research Center, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Racial and ethnic minorities remain underrepresented in clinical
research, yet few recruitment strategies have been rigorously evaluated.
METHODS: We experimentally tested whether targeted recruitment letters
acknowledging diabetes health disparities and health risks specific to
recipients' racial/ethnic group improved two metrics of trial participation:
willingness to be screened and enrollment. This experiment was efficiently nested
within a randomized clinical trial examining a preventive lifestyle intervention 
among women at high risk for diabetes. Pregnant women with gestational diabetes
or impaired glucose tolerance (N = 445) were randomized to receive a targeted
recruitment letter with health risk information specific to their racial/ethnic
group (n = 216), or a standard letter with risk information for the general
population (n = 229). All letters were bilingual in English and Spanish.
RESULTS: The targeted as compared to the standard letter did not improve
screening or enrollment rates overall or within separate racial/ethnic groups.
Among Latina women who preferred Spanish, the targeted letter showed trends for
improved screening (66.7% vs 33.3%, p = .06) and enrollment rates (38.9% vs
13.3%, p = .13). In contrast, among Latina women who preferred English, the
targeted letter significantly lowered screening (29.6% vs 57.1%, p = .04) and
showed trends for lowered enrollment rates (25.9% vs 50.0%, p = .07).
CONCLUSION: Results from this randomized study appear to suggest that recruitment
letters with diabetes health risk information targeted to recipients'
race/ethnicity may improve one metric of clinical trial participation among
Latina women who prefer Spanish, but not English. Larger experimental studies,
incorporating input from diverse participant stakeholders, are needed to develop 
evidence-based minority recruitment strategies.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25644997  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


256. Curr Drug Targets. 2015 Feb 2. [Epub ahead of print]

"Penile Rehabilitation After Radical Prostatectomy"

Cohen DJ(1), Glina S(2).

Author information: 
(1). (2)Department of Urology of Faculdade de Medicina do ABC, Brazil.
glinas@terra.com.br.

Erectile dysfunction (ED) is the main and most frequent side effect after radical
prostatectomy. Also, ED is the primary impact factor on quality of life after
radical prostatectomy. ED post radical prostatectomy is mainly due to lesions to 
the neurovascular bundles which can occur by partial or total sectioning, by
stretching (the most common), or by thermal lesion of the nervous fibers, leading
to a condition called "neuropraxia". The term penile rehabilitation (PR) after
prostatectomy has been defined as any intervention with the intent of
reestablishing preoperative erectile function and included the isolated or
combined use of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors (PDE5i), intracavernous injection,
vacuum erectile device therapy, and use of intraurethral drugs. The use of
intracavernous drugs, of intraurethral prostaglandin and the use of vacuum
therapy have poorly defined role regarding postoperative penile rehabilitation
and must be better investigated through further studies. The use of PDE5i as PR
there is strongly supported by experimental research, but most clinical trials
found controversial results.

PMID: 25642716  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


257. Eur J Endocrinol. 2015 Feb 2. pii: EJE-14-0902. [Epub ahead of print]

MECHANISMS IN ENDOCRINOLOGY: Exogenous insulin does not increase muscle protein
synthesis rate when administrated systemically: a systematic review.

Trommelen J(1), Groen B(2), Hamer H(3), de Groot LC(4), van Loon LJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)J Trommelen, NUTRIM school for Nutrition, Toxicology and Metablism, Maastricht
University Medical Centre, Maastricht, Netherlands. (2)B Groen, NUTRIM school for
Nutrition, Toxicology and Metablism, Maastricht University Medical Centre,
Maastricht, Netherlands. (3)H Hamer, NUTRIM school for Nutrition, Toxicology and 
Metablism, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, Netherlands. (4)L de
Groot, Division of Human Nutrition, Wageningen University, Wageningen,
Netherlands. (5)L van Loon, NUTRIM school for Nutrition, Toxicology and
Metablism, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, Netherlands
L.vanloon@maastrichtuniversity.nl.

Background: Though it is well appreciated that insulin plays an important role in
regulating muscle protein metabolism, there is much discrepancy in the literature
on the capacity of exogenous insulin administration to increase muscle protein
synthesis rates in vivo in humans. Objective: To assess whether exogenous insulin
administration increases muscle protein synthesis rates in young and older
adults. Design: A systematic review of clinical trials was performed and the
presence or absence of an increase in muscle protein synthesis rate was reported 
for each individual study arm. In a stepwise manner, multiple models where
constructed that excluded study arms based on the following conditions: model 1) 
concurrent hyperaminoamino-acidemia, model 2) insulin-induced hypoaminoacidemia, 
model 3) supraphysiological insulin concentrations, and model 4) older, more
insulin resistant, subjects. Conclusions: From the presented data in the current 
systematic review, we conclude that 1) exogenous insulin and amino acid
administration effectively increase muscle protein synthesis, however this effect
is attributed to the hyperaminoacidemia, 2) exogenous insulin administrated
systemically induces hypoaminoacidemia which obviates any insulin-stimulatory
effect on muscle protein synthesis, 3) exogenous insulin resulting in
supraphysiological insulin levels exceeding 50,000 pmol/L may effectively augment
muscle protein synthesis, 4) exogenous insulin may have a diminished effect on
muscle protein synthesis in older adults due to age related anabolic resistance, 
and 5) exogenous insulin administrated systemically does not increase muscle
protein synthesis in healthy, young adults.

PMID: 25646407  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


258. Eur J Med Chem. 2015 Feb 2;93C:121-134. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2015.01.063. [Epub 
ahead of print]

When structure-affinity relationships meet structure-kinetics relationships:
3-((Inden-1-yl)amino)-1-isopropyl-cyclopentane-1-carboxamides as CCR2
antagonists.

Vilums M(1), Zweemer AJ(1), Barmare F(2), van der Gracht AM(1), Bleeker DC(1), Yu
Z(1), de Vries H(1), Gross R(2), Clemens J(2), Krenitsky P(2), Brussee J(1),
Stamos D(2), Saunders J(2), Heitman LH(1), IJzerman AP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medicinal Chemistry, Leiden Academic Centre for Drug Research,
Leiden University, P.O. Box 9502, 2300 RA Leiden, The Netherlands. (2)Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, 11010 Torreyana Rd., San Diego, CA 92121, USA.
(3)Division of Medicinal Chemistry, Leiden Academic Centre for Drug Research,
Leiden University, P.O. Box 9502, 2300 RA Leiden, The Netherlands. Electronic
address: ijzerman@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl.

Chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) mediates chemotaxis of monocytes to inflammatory sites 
via interaction with its G protein-coupled receptor CCR2. Preclinical animal
models suggest that the CCL2-CCR2 axis has a critical role in the development and
maintenance of inflammatory disease states (e.g., multiple sclerosis,
atherosclerosis, insulin resistance, restenosis, and neuropathic pain), which can
be treated through inhibition of the CCR2 receptor. However, in clinical trials
high-affinity inhibitors of CCR2 have often demonstrated a lack of efficacy. We
have previously described a new approach for the design of high-affinity CCR2
antagonists, by taking their residence time (RT) on the receptor into account.
Here, we report our findings on both structure-affinity relationship (SAR) and
structure-kinetic relationship (SKR) studies for a series of
3-((inden-1-yl)amino)-1-isopropyl-cyclopentane-1-carboxamides as CCR2
antagonists. SAR studies showed that this class of compounds tolerates a vast
diversity of substituents on the indenyl ring with only small changes in
affinity. However, the SKR is affected greatly by minor modifications of the
structure. The combination of SAR and SKR in the hit-to-lead process resulted in 
the discovery of a new high-affinity and long-residence-time CCR2 antagonist
(compound 15a, Ki = 2.4 nM; RT = 714 min).

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25666912  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


259. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2015 Feb 2:1-24. [Epub ahead of print]

Aspects of pulmonary drug delivery strategies for infections in cystic fibrosis -
where do we stand?

Klinger-Strobel M(1), Lautenschläger C, Fischer D, Mainz JG, Bruns T, Tuchscherr 
L, Pletz MW, Makarewicz O.

Author information: 
(1)Jena University Hospital, Center for Infectious Diseases and Infection Control
, Erlanger Allee 101, 07740 Jena , Germany +49 3641 9324227 ;
oliwia.makarewicz@med.uni-jena.de.

Introduction: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common life-shortening hereditary 
disease among Caucasians and is associated with severe pulmonary damage because
of decreased mucociliary clearance and subsequent chronic bacterial infections.
Approximately 90% of CF patients die from lung destruction, promoted by pathogens
such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Consequently, antibiotic treatment is a
cornerstone of CF therapy, preventing chronic infection and reducing bacterial
load, exacerbation rates and loss of pulmonary function. Many drugs are
administered by inhalation to achieve high pulmonary concentration and to lower
systemic side effects. However, pulmonary deposition of inhaled drugs is
substantially limited by bronchial obstruction with viscous mucus and restrained 
by intrapulmonary bacterial biofilms. Areas covered: This review describes
challenges in the therapy of CF-associated infections by inhaled antibiotics and 
summarizes the current state of microtechnology and nanotechnology-based
pulmonary antibiotic delivery strategies. Recent and ongoing clinical trials as
well as experimental approaches for microparticle/nanoparticle-based antibiotics 
are presented and their advantages and disadvantages are discussed. Expert
opinion: Rapidly increasing antimicrobial resistance accompanied by the lack of
novel antibiotics force targeted and more efficient use of the available drugs.
Encapsulation of antimicrobials in nanoparticles or microparticles of organic
polymers may have great potential for use in CF therapy.

PMID: 25642831  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


260. Int Clin Psychopharmacol. 2015 Feb 2. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatment of cocaine craving with as-needed nalmefene, a partial κ opioid
receptor agonist: first clinical experience.

Grosshans M(1), Mutschler J, Kiefer F.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Addictive Behavior and Addiction Medicine, Central Institute of
Mental Health, University of Heidelberg/Medical Faculty Mannheim, Mannheim,
Germany bDepartment of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy, and Psychosomatics, Zürich
University Hospital for Psychiatry, Zürich, Switzerland.

The treatment of cocaine dependence is difficult as no approved pharmacotherapy
is available as yet. However, in preclinical and clinical trials, a variety of
compounds were tested for suitability as inhibitors of craving for and relapse
into the use of cocaine, among these antidepressants, antiepileptics, dopamine
agonists, disulfiram, and naltrexone. Nalmefene, a structural derivative of
naltrexone, shares with its parent compound approval (granted by the European
Medical Agency in 2013) as a medication for the treatment of alcohol addiction in
the European Union. It differs from naltrexone by a higher affinity for the δ
opioid-receptors and a partial agonistic affinity to the κ opioid-receptors. It
should be noted that patients addicted to cocaine show a considerable increase in
κ receptors in the nucleus accumbens. This report describes the case of an
abstinent cocaine-addicted patient regularly afflicted with cravings for cocaine.
The patient took as-needed nalmefene for 5 months whenever she developed a
craving for cocaine. For most of these interventions, the patient reported an
abatement of craving and could avoid relapsing into cocaine consumption. This
effect may be accounted for by nalmefene acting, other than naltrexone, as a
partial agonist of the κ opioid-receptors. Therefore, nalmefene might be a
promising new option in the pharmacological repertoire for the treatment of
cocaine addiction.

PMID: 25647453  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


261. Intern Med J. 2015 Feb 2. doi: 10.1111/imj.12702. [Epub ahead of print]

Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Rates in Patients Undergoing Major Hip and Knee
Joint Surgery at Waitemata District Health Board (WDHB) : A Retrospective Audit.

Dixon J(1), Ahn E, Zhou L, Lim R, Simpson D, Merriman EG.

Author information: 
(1)Haematology department, Waitemata District Health Board.

BACKGROUND: Symptomatic venous thromboembolism (VTE) complicates approximately 4%
of major orthopaedic surgical procedures performed without thromboprophylaxis.
Randomised clinical trials demonstrate primary thromboprophylaxis reduces VTE
rates to <1%, with low rates of clinically important bleeding, using LMWH, oral
FXa inhibitors, or thrombin inhibitors. We reviewed the rates of VTE in patients 
undergoing major hip/knee joint surgery at Waitemata District Health Board
(WDHB).
METHODS: Cases of VTE within 90 days of orthopaedic surgery were identified by
retrospective audit of data from the Haematology VTE database. The number of
major hip/ knee joint surgeries at WDHB from January 2006-December 2010 were
obtained from clinical coding data.
RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of VTE within 90 days of surgery was 3.29%. The
median time from surgery to diagnosis was 7 days. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
comprised 75% of cases, 77.6% distal; 23.2% proximal.PE comprised 26.5% of VTE;
47.7% had right heart strain on CT/ echocardiography. Hip fracture surgery
comprised one-third of patients. Of patients developing VTE, 85.5% had chemical
thromboprophylaxis- aspirin 73%, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) 20mg 16%,
LMWH 40mg 16%, therapeutic LMWH 3%, unfractionated heparin (UFH) BD 1%, warfarin 
4%. 75.6% received mechanical prophylaxis. 4% of patients received no
prophylaxis.
CONCLUSION: VTE incidence after major hip/knee joint surgery at WDHB is high,
with PE comprising almost one third of all VTE in this study, indicating the
prophylaxis given is suboptimal. Implementation of appropriate, extended duration
prophylaxis as per evidence-based guidelines is required to reduce these rates.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25644232  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


262. J Clin Invest. 2015 Feb 2. pii: 78142. doi: 10.1172/JCI78142. [Epub ahead of
print]

β Cell death and dysfunction during type 1 diabetes development in at-risk
individuals.

Herold KC, Usmani-Brown S, Ghazi T, Lebastchi J, Beam CA, Bellin MD, Ledizet M,
Sosenko JM, Krischer JP, Palmer JP.

Role of the funding source: Funding from the NIH was used for support of the
participating clinical centers and the coordinating center. The funding source
did not participate in the collection or the analysis of the data. BACKGROUND.
The β cell killing that characterizes type 1 diabetes (T1D) is thought to begin
years before patients present clinically with metabolic decompensation; however, 
this primary pathologic process of the disease has not been measured. METHODS.
Here, we measured β cell death with an assay that detects β cell-derived
unmethylated insulin (INS) DNA. Using this assay, we performed an observational
study of 50 participants from 2 cohorts at risk for developing T1D from the
TrialNet Pathway to Prevention study and of 4 subjects who received islet
autotransplants. RESULTS. In at-risk subjects, those who progressed to T1D had
average levels of unmethylated INS DNA that were elevated modestly compared with 
those of healthy control subjects. In at-risk individuals that progressed to T1D,
the observed increases in unmethylated INS DNA were associated with decreases in 
insulin secretion, indicating that the changes in unmethylated INS DNA are
indicative of β cell killing. Subjects at high risk for T1D had levels of
unmethylated INS DNA that were higher than those of healthy controls and higher
than the levels of unmethylated INS DNA in the at-risk progressor and at-risk
nonprogressor groups followed for 4 years. Evaluation of insulin secretory
kinetics also distinguished high-risk subjects who progressed to overt disease
from those who did not. CONCLUSION. We conclude that a blood test that measures
unmethylated INS DNA serves as a marker of active β cell killing as the result of
T1D-associated autoimmunity. Together, the data support the concept that β cell
killing occurs sporadically during the years prior to diagnosis of T1D and is
more intense in the peridiagnosis period. TRIAL REGISTRATION. Clinical Trials.gov
NCT00097292. FUNDING. Funding was from the NIH, the Juvenile Diabetes Research
Foundation, and the American Diabetes Association.

PMID: 25642774  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


263. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Feb 2. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.4103. [Epub ahead of print]

A Genome-wide Association Study of Myasthenia Gravis.

Renton AE(1), Pliner HA(1), Provenzano C(2), Evoli A(3), Ricciardi R(4), Nalls
MA(5), Marangi G(6), Abramzon Y(1), Arepalli S(7), Chong S(7), Hernandez DG(7),
Johnson JO(1), Bartoccioni E(2), Scuderi F(2), Maestri M(4), Gibbs JR(8),
Errichiello E(9), Chiò A(10), Restagno G(11), Sabatelli M(3), Macek M(12), Scholz
SW(12), Corse A(12), Chaudhry V(12), Benatar M(13), Barohn RJ(14), McVey A(14),
Pasnoor M(14), Dimachkie MM(14), Rowin J(15), Kissel J(16), Freimer M(16),
Kaminski HJ(17), Sanders DB(18), Lipscomb B(18), Massey JM(18), Chopra M(19),
Howard JF Jr(19), Koopman WJ(20), Nicolle MW(20), Pascuzzi RM(21), Pestronk
A(22), Wulf C(22), Florence J(22), Blackmore D(23), Soloway A(23), Siddiqi Z(23),
Muppidi S(24), Wolfe G(24), Richman D(25), Mezei MM(26), Jiwa T(26), Oger J(26), 
Drachman DB(12), Traynor BJ(27).

Author information: 
(1)Neuromuscular Diseases Research Unit, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Porter Neuroscience Research
Center, Bethesda, Maryland. (2)Institute of General Pathology, Catholic
University, Rome, Italy. (3)Institute of Neurology, Catholic University, Rome,
Italy. (4)Department of Neuroscience, Cisanello Hospital, University of Pisa,
Pisa, Italy. (5)Molecular Genetics Section, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Porter Neuroscience Research
Center, Bethesda, Maryland. (6)Neuromuscular Diseases Research Unit, Laboratory
of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health,
Porter Neuroscience Research Center, Bethesda, Maryland6Institute of Medical
Genetics, Catholic University, Rome, Italy. (7)Genomics Technology Group,
Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of 
Health, Porter Neuroscience Research Center, Bethesda, Maryland. (8)Computational
Biology Core, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, Porter Neuroscience Research Center, Bethesda, Maryland.
(9)Neuromuscular Diseases Research Unit, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Porter Neuroscience Research
Center, Bethesda, Maryland9Rita Levi Montalcini Department of Neuroscience,
University of Turin, Tu. (10)Rita Levi Montalcini Department of Neuroscience,
University of Turin, Turin, Italy. (11)Molecular Genetics Unit, Department of
Clinical Pathology, ASO OIRM-S Anna, Turin, Italy. (12)Department of Neurology,
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. (13)Department of
Neurology, University of Miami, Miami, Florida. (14)Department of Neurology,
University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City. (15)Department of Neurology,
University of Illinois College of Medicine, Chicago. (16)Department of Neurology,
Ohio State University Medical Center, Columbus. (17)Department of Neurology,
George Washington University, Washington, DC. (18)Department of Neurology, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina. (19)Department of Neurology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. (20)Department of Clinical
Neurosciences, London Health Sciences Centre, London, Ontario, Canada.
(21)Department of Neurology, Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis. 
(22)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
Missouri. (23)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta Hospital, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada. (24)Department of Neurology, University at Buffalo SMBS, State
University of New York, Buffalo. (25)Department of Neurology, University of
California, Davis Medical Center. (26)Division of Neurology, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (27)Neuromuscular Diseases
Research Unit, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, National
Institutes of Health, Porter Neuroscience Research Center, Bethesda,
Maryland11Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore,
M.

Importance: Myasthenia gravis is a chronic, autoimmune, neuromuscular disease
characterized by fluctuating weakness of voluntary muscle groups. Although
genetic factors are known to play a role in this neuroimmunological condition,
the genetic etiology underlying myasthenia gravis is not well understood.
Objective: To identify genetic variants that alter susceptibility to myasthenia
gravis, we performed a genome-wide association study.
Design, Setting, and Participants: DNA was obtained from 1032 white individuals
from North America diagnosed as having acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive
myasthenia gravis and 1998 race/ethnicity-matched control individuals from
January 2010 to January 2011. These samples were genotyped on Illumina
OmniExpress single-nucleotide polymorphism arrays. An independent cohort of 423
Italian cases and 467 Italian control individuals were used for replication.
Main Outcomes and Measures: We calculated P values for association between
8 114 394 genotyped and imputed variants across the genome and risk for
developing myasthenia gravis using logistic regression modeling. A threshold P
value of 5.0 × 10-8 was set for genome-wide significance after Bonferroni
correction for multiple testing.
Results: In the overall case-control cohort, we identified association signals at
CTLA4 (rs231770; P = 3.98 × 10-8; odds ratio, 1.37; 95% CI, 1.25-1.49), HLA-DQA1 
(rs9271871; P = 1.08 × 10-8; odds ratio, 2.31; 95% CI, 2.02 - 2.60), and
TNFRSF11A (rs4263037; P = 1.60 × 10-9; odds ratio, 1.41; 95% CI, 1.29-1.53).
These findings replicated for CTLA4 and HLA-DQA1 in an independent cohort of
Italian cases and control individuals. Further analysis revealed distinct, but
overlapping, disease-associated loci for early- and late-onset forms of
myasthenia gravis. In the late-onset cases, we identified 2 association peaks:
one was located in TNFRSF11A (rs4263037; P = 1.32 × 10-12; odds ratio, 1.56; 95% 
CI, 1.44-1.68) and the other was detected in the major histocompatibility complex
on chromosome 6p21 (HLA-DQA1; rs9271871; P = 7.02 × 10-18; odds ratio, 4.27; 95% 
CI, 3.92-4.62). Association within the major histocompatibility complex region
was also observed in early-onset cases (HLA-DQA1; rs601006; P = 2.52 × 10-11;
odds ratio, 4.0; 95% CI, 3.57-4.43), although the set of single-nucleotide
polymorphisms was different from that implicated among late-onset cases.
Conclusions and Relevance: Our genetic data provide insights into aberrant
cellular mechanisms responsible for this prototypical autoimmune disorder. They
also suggest that clinical trials of immunomodulatory drugs related to CTLA4 and 
that are already Food and Drug Administration approved as therapies for other
autoimmune diseases could be considered for patients with refractory disease.

PMID: 25643325  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


264. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2015 Feb 2. pii: hyv012. [Epub ahead of print]

A randomized controlled Phase III trial comparing 2-weekly docetaxel combined
with cisplatin plus fluorouracil (2-weekly DCF) with cisplatin plus fluorouracil 
(CF) in patients with metastatic or recurrent esophageal cancer: rationale,
design and methods of Japan Clinical Oncology Group study JCOG1314 (MIRACLE
study).

Kataoka K(1), Tsushima T(2), Mizusawa J(1), Hironaka S(3), Tsubosa Y(4), Kii
T(5), Shibuya Y(6), Chin K(7), Katayama H(1), Kato K(8), Fukuda H(1), Kitagawa Y;
Japan Esophageal Oncology Group/Japan Clinical Oncology Group.

Author information: 
(1)JCOG Data Center/Operations Office, Center for Research Administration and
Support, National Cancer Center, Tokyo. (2)Division of Gastrointestinal Oncology,
Shizuoka Cancer Center, Shizuoka t.tsushima@scchr.jp. (3)Clinical Trial Promotion
Department, Chiba Cancer Center, Chiba. (4)Division of Esophageal Surgery,
Shizuoka Cancer Center, Shizuoka. (5)Cancer Chemotherapy Center, Osaka Medical
College, Osaka. (6)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Kochi Health
Sciences Center, Kochi. (7)Department of Gastroenterology, Cancer Institute
Hospital of Japanese Foundation for Cancer Research, Tokyo. (8)Gastrointestinal
Medical Oncology Division, National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo.

Chemotherapy with cisplatin plus fluorouracil is the current standard treatment
for metastatic or recurrent esophageal cancer. We have developed a 2-weekly
docetaxel combined with CF regimen and conducted a Phase I/II trial for
metastatic or recurrent esophageal cancer (JCOG0807). Promising efficacy and
safety were shown in JCOG0807, and we have commenced a Phase III trial in
September 2014 to confirm the superiority of 2-weekly DCF to CF for patients with
metastatic or recurrent esophageal cancer. A total of 240 patients will be
accrued from 41 Japanese institutions over a period of 4 years. The primary end
point is overall survival. The secondary end points are progression-free
survival, response rate and proportion of adverse events. This trial has been
registered in the UMIN Clinical Trials Registry as UMIN000015107
(http://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/index.htm).

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25646357  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


265. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Feb 2. pii: S1470-2045(14)70482-6. doi:
10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70482-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Hypofractionated versus conventionally fractionated radiotherapy for patients
with prostate cancer (HYPRO): acute toxicity results from a randomised
non-inferiority phase 3 trial.

Aluwini S(1), Pos F(2), Schimmel E(3), van Lin E(4), Krol S(5), van der Toorn
PP(6), de Jager H(7), Dirkx M(8), Alemayehu WG(9), Heijmen B(8), Incrocci L(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam,
Netherlands. Electronic address: s.aluwini@erasmusmc.nl. (2)Department of
Radiation Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital,
Amsterdam, Netherlands. (3)Institute for Radiation Oncology Arnhem, Netherlands. 
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Medical Centre Nijmegen,
Nijmegen, Netherlands. (5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Leiden University
Medical Centre, Leiden, Netherlands. (6)Department of Radiation Oncology,
Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, Netherlands. (7)Radiotherapy Centre West, The
Hague, Netherlands. (8)Department of Radiation Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer
Institute, Rotterdam, Netherlands. (9)Clinical Trials Center, Erasmus MC Cancer
Institute, Rotterdam, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: In 2007, we began the randomised phase 3 multicentre HYPRO trial to
investigate the effect of hypofractionated radiotherapy compared with
conventionally fractionated radiotherapy on relapse-free survival in patients
with prostate cancer. Here, we examine whether patients experience differences in
acute gastrointestinal and genitourinary adverse effects.
METHODS: In this randomised non-inferiority phase 3 trial, done in seven
radiotherapy centres in the Netherlands, we enrolled intermediate-risk or
high-risk patients aged between 44 and 85 years with histologically confirmed
stage T1b-T4 NX-0MX-0 prostate cancer, a PSA concentration of 60 ng/mL or lower, 
and WHO performance status of 0-2. A web-based application was used to randomly
assign (1:1) patients to receive either standard fractionation with 39 fractions 
of 2 Gy in 8 weeks (five fractions per week) or hypofractionation with 19
fractions of 3·4 Gy in 6·5 weeks (three fractions per week). Randomisation was
done with minimisation procedure, stratified by treatment centre and risk group. 
The primary endpoint is 5-year relapse-free survival. Here we report data for the
acute toxicity outcomes: the cumulative incidence of grade 2 or worse acute and
late genitourinary and gastrointestinal toxicity. Non-inferiority of
hypofractionation was tested separately for genitourinary and gastrointestinal
acute toxic effects, with a null hypothesis that cumulative incidences of each
type of adverse event were not more than 8% higher in the hypofractionation group
than in the standard fractionation group. We scored acute genitourinary and
gastrointestinal toxic effects according to RTOG-EORTC criteria from both case
report forms and patients' self-assessment questionnaires, at baseline, twice
during radiotherapy, and 3 months after completion of radiotherapy. Analyses were
done in the intention-to-treat population. Patient recruitment has been
completed. This study is registered with www.controlled-trials.com, number
ISRCTN85138529.
FINDINGS: Between March 19, 2007, and Dec 3, 2010, 820 patients were randomly
assigned to treatment with standard fractionation (n=410) or hypofractionation
(n=410). 3 months after radiotherapy, 73 (22%) patients in the standard
fractionation group and 75 (23%) patients in the hypofractionation group reported
grade 2 or worse genitourinary toxicity; grade 2 or worse gastrointestinal
toxicity was noted in 43 (13%) patients in the standard fractionation group and
in 42 (13%) in the hypofractionation group. Grade 4 acute genitourinary toxicity 
was reported for two patients, one (<1%) in each group. No grade 4 acute
gastrointestinal toxicities were observed. We noted no significant difference in 
cumulative incidence by 120 days after radiotherapy of grade 2 or worse acute
genitourinary toxicity (57·8% [95% CI 52·9-62·7] in the standard fractionation
group vs 60·5% (55·8-65·3) in the hypofractionation group; difference 2·7%, 90%
CI -2·99 to 8·48; odds ratio [OR] 1·12, 95% CI 0·84-1·49; p=0·43). The cumulative
incidence of grade 2 or worse acute gastrointestinal toxicity by 120 days after
radiotherapy was higher in patients given hypofractionation (31·2% [95% CI
26·6-35·8] in the standard fractionation group vs 42·0% [37·2-46·9] in the
hypofractionation group; difference 10·8%, 90% CI 5·25-16·43; OR 1·6; p=0·0015;
non-inferiority not confirmed).
INTERPRETATION: Hypofractionated radiotherapy was not non-inferior to standard
fractionated radiotherapy in terms of acute genitourinary and gastrointestinal
cancer for men with intermediate-risk and high-risk prostate cancer. In fact, the
cumulative incidence of grade 2 or worse acute gastrointestinal toxicity was
significantly higher in patients given hypofractionation than in those given
standard fractionated radiotherapy. Patients remain in follow-up for efficacy
endpoints.
FUNDING: The Dutch Cancer Society.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25656287  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


266. Nat Med. 2015 Feb 2. doi: 10.1038/nm.3765. [Epub ahead of print]

Functional correction in mouse models of muscular dystrophy using exon-skipping
tricyclo-DNA oligomers.

Goyenvalle A(1), Griffith G(1), Babbs A(2), Andaloussi SE(3), Ezzat K(4), Avril
A(1), Dugovic B(5), Chaussenot R(6), Ferry A(7), Voit T(7), Amthor H(1), Bühr
C(8), Schürch S(8), Wood MJ(4), Davies KE(2), Vaillend C(6), Leumann C(8), Garcia
L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Versailles St-Quentin, INSERM U1179, LIA BAHN CSM,
Montigny-le-Bretonneux, France. (2)MRC Functional Genomics Unit, University of
Oxford, Oxford, UK. (3)1] Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska
Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden. [2] Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics,
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. (4)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and
Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. (5)SYNTHENA AG, Bern, Switzerland.
(6)1] Université Paris-Sud, Centre de Neurosciences Paris-Sud, UMR8195, Orsay,
France. [2] CNRS, Orsay, France. (7)Institut de Myologie, Université Pierre et
Marie Curie, INSERM U974, CNRS FRE 3217, Paris, France. (8)Department of
Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

Antisense oligonucleotides (AONs) hold promise for therapeutic correction of many
genetic diseases via exon skipping, and the first AON-based drugs have entered
clinical trials for neuromuscular disorders. However, despite advances in AON
chemistry and design, systemic use of AONs is limited because of poor tissue
uptake, and recent clinical reports confirm that sufficient therapeutic efficacy 
has not yet been achieved. Here we present a new class of AONs made of
tricyclo-DNA (tcDNA), which displays unique pharmacological properties and
unprecedented uptake by many tissues after systemic administration. We
demonstrate these properties in two mouse models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy
(DMD), a neurogenetic disease typically caused by frame-shifting deletions or
nonsense mutations in the gene encoding dystrophin and characterized by
progressive muscle weakness, cardiomyopathy, respiratory failure and
neurocognitive impairment. Although current naked AONs do not enter the heart or 
cross the blood-brain barrier to any substantial extent, we show that systemic
delivery of tcDNA-AONs promotes a high degree of rescue of dystrophin expression 
in skeletal muscles, the heart and, to a lesser extent, the brain. Our results
demonstrate for the first time a physiological improvement of cardio-respiratory 
functions and a correction of behavioral features in DMD model mice. This makes
tcDNA-AON chemistry particularly attractive as a potential future therapy for
patients with DMD and other neuromuscular disorders or with other diseases that
are eligible for exon-skipping approaches requiring whole-body treatment.

PMID: 25642938  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


267. Neurorehabil Neural Repair. 2015 Feb 2. pii: 1545968315570322. [Epub ahead of
print]

Toward Inclusive Trial Protocols in Heterogeneous Neurological Disorders:
Prediction-Based Stratification of Participants With Incomplete Cervical Spinal
Cord Injury.

Tanadini LG(1), Hothorn T(2), Jones LA(3), Lammertse DP(4), Abel R(5), Maier
D(6), Rupp R(7), Weidner N(7), Curt A(8), Steeves JD(9).

Author information: 
(1)Spinal Cord Injury Center, Balgrist University Hospital, Zurich, Switzerland
Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Prevention
Institute, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland
ltanadini@paralab.balgrist.ch. (2)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology,
Biostatistics and Prevention Institute, University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland. (3)Craig H. Neilsen Foundation, Encino, CA, USA. (4)Craig Hospital, 
Englewood, CO, USA Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University
of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO, USA. (5)Trauma Center Bayreuth, Bayreuth, Germany
EMSCI Study Group. (6)EMSCI Study Group Trauma Center Murnau, Murnau, Germany.
(7)EMSCI Study Group Spinal Cord Injury Center, Heidelberg University Hospital,
Heidelberg, Germany. (8)Spinal Cord Injury Center, Balgrist University Hospital, 
Zurich, Switzerland EMSCI Study Group. (9)ICORD, University of British Columbia
and Vancouver Coastal Health, Vancouver, Canada.

Background. Several novel drug- and cell-based potential therapies for spinal
cord injury (SCI) have either been applied or will be considered for future
clinical trials. Limitations on the number of eligible patients require trials be
undertaken in a highly efficient and effective manner. However, this is
particularly challenging when people living with incomplete SCI (iSCI) represent 
a very heterogeneous population in terms of recovery patterns and can improve
spontaneously over the first year after injury. Objective. The current study
addresses 2 requirements for designing SCI trials: first, enrollment of as many
eligible participants as possible; second, refined stratification of participants
into homogeneous cohorts from a heterogeneous iSCI population. Methods. This is a
retrospective, longitudinal analysis of prospectively collected SCI data from the
European Multicenter study about Spinal Cord Injury (EMSCI). We applied
conditional inference trees to provide a prediction-based stratification
algorithm that could be used to generate decision rules for the appropriate
inclusion of iSCI participants to a trial. Results. Based on baseline clinical
assessments and a defined subsequent clinical endpoint, conditional inference
trees partitioned iSCI participants into more homogeneous groups with regard to
the illustrative endpoint, upper extremity motor score. Assuming a continuous
endpoint, the conditional inference tree was validated both internally as well as
externally, providing stable and generalizable results. Conclusion. The
application of conditional inference trees is feasible for iSCI participants and 
provides easily implementable, prediction-based decision rules for inclusion and 
stratification. This algorithm could be utilized to model various trial endpoints
and outcome thresholds.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25644238  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


268. Nicotine Tob Res. 2015 Feb 2. pii: ntv010. [Epub ahead of print]

Use of varenicline in smokeless tobacco cessation: a systematic review and
meta-analysis.

Schwartz J(1), Fadahunsi O(1), Hingorani R(1), Mainali NR(1), Oluwasanjo A(2),
Aryal MR(1), Donato A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Reading Health System, Sixth Avenue and Spruce Street,
West Reading, PA, 19612, USA. (2)Department of Medicine, Reading Health System,
Sixth Avenue and Spruce Street, West Reading, PA, 19612, USA
Adetokunbo.Oluwasanjo@readinghealth.org. (3)Department of Medicine, Reading
Health System, Sixth Avenue and Spruce Street, West Reading, PA, 19612, USA
Jefferson Medical College, 1020, Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA, 19107, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis on the effectiveness and
safety of varenicline in smokeless tobacco cessation.
METHODS: PubMed, EMBASE, clinicaltrials.gov and the Cochrane Registry were
searched up to February 1, 2014 for randomized clinical trials (RCTs) comparing
varenicline to placebo. Random effects Mantel-Haenszel summary relative risks
(RR), risk difference (RD) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were used for
analysis and reporting of outcomes. Primary and secondary outcomes were the
seven-day point prevalence of smokeless tobacco abstinence at the end of 12 and
26 weeks respectively. Adverse events reported include nausea, sleep disturbance,
and mood disorders.
RESULTS: Three published RCTs involving 744 smokeless tobacco users with a mean
age of 39.7 years, of which greater than 88% were males, were randomized to
varenicline (n = 370) and placebo (n = 374). Subjects in the varenicline arm had 
a significantly higher seven-day point prevalence of smokeless tobacco abstinence
at 12 weeks (48% versus 33%; RR 1.45, 95% CI 1.22 to 1.72, P < 0.0001, I(2) = 0%;
RD 13%, 95% CI 4 to 23%, P = 0.008) but not at 26 weeks (49% versus 39%; RR 1.38,
95% CI 0.93 to 2.03, P = 0.11, I(2) = 51%). There were no statistically
significant differences in the incidences of adverse events between the two arms 
but interpretation is limited by high heterogeneity.
CONCLUSION: This pooled analysis suggests that varenicline is effective in
achieving a seven-day point prevalence of smokeless tobacco abstinence at 12
weeks but showed that this effect was not sustained at 26 weeks.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco. All rights reserved. For permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25646351  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


269. Stat Med. 2015 Feb 2. doi: 10.1002/sim.6447. [Epub ahead of print]

The impact of covariate adjustment at randomization and analysis for binary
outcomes: understanding differences between superiority and
noninferiority trials.

Nicholas K(1), Yeatts SD, Zhao W, Ciolino J, Borg K, Durkalski V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC, U.S.A.

The question of when to adjust for important prognostic covariates often arises
in the design of clinical trials, and there remain various opinions on whether to
adjust during both randomization and analysis, at randomization alone, or at
analysis alone. Furthermore, little is known about the impact of covariate
adjustment in the context of noninferiority (NI) designs. The current
simulation-based research explores this issue in the NI setting, as compared with
the typical superiority setting, by assessing the differential impact on power,
type I error, and bias in the treatment estimate as well as its standard error,
in the context of logistic regression under both simple and covariate adjusted
permuted block randomization algorithms. In both the superiority and NI settings,
failure to adjust for covariates that influence outcome in the analysis phase,
regardless of prior adjustment at randomization, results in treatment estimates
that are biased toward zero, with standard errors that are deflated. However, as 
no treatment difference is approached under the null hypothesis in superiority
and under the alternative in NI, this results in decreased power and nominal or
conservative (deflated) type I error in the context of superiority but inflated
power and type I error under NI. Results from the simulation study suggest that, 
regardless of the use of the covariate in randomization, it is appropriate to
adjust for important prognostic covariates in analysis, as this yields nearly
unbiased estimates of treatment as well as nominal type I error. Copyright © 2015
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25641057  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


270. Vaccine. 2015 Feb 2. pii: S0264-410X(15)00115-2. doi:
10.1016/j.vaccine.2015.01.058. [Epub ahead of print]

Deletion of zmp1 improves Mycobacterium bovis BCG-mediated protection in a guinea
pig model of tuberculosis.

Sander P(1), Clark S(2), Petrera A(3), Vilaplana C(4), Meuli M(3), Selchow P(3), 
Zelmer A(5), Mohanan D(6), Andreu N(5), Rayner E(2), Dal Molin M(3), Bancroft
GJ(5), Johansen P(6), Cardona PJ(4), Williams A(2), Böttger EC(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; 
Nationales Zentrum für Mykobakterien, Gloriastrasse 30/32, 8006 Zurich,
Switzerland. Electronic address: psander@imm.uzh.ch. (2)Microbiology Services,
Public Health England, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.
(3)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. 
(4)Unitat de Tuberculosi Experimental, Fundació Institut d'Investigació en
Ciències de la Salut Germans Trias i Pujol, Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona,
CIBERES, Badalona, Catalonia, Spain. (5)Deptartment of Immunology and Infection, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT, United Kingdom. 
(6)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(7)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; 
Nationales Zentrum für Mykobakterien, Gloriastrasse 30/32, 8006 Zurich,
Switzerland.

Having demonstrated previously that deletion of zinc metalloprotease zmp1 in
Mycobacterium bovis BCG increased immunogenicity of BCG vaccines, we here
investigated the protective efficacy of BCG zmp1 deletion mutants in a guinea pig
model of tuberculosis infection. zmp1 deletion mutants of BCG provided enhanced
protection by reducing the bacterial load of tubercle bacilli in the lungs of
infected guinea pigs. The increased efficacy of BCG due to zmp1 deletion was
demonstrated in both BCG Pasteur and BCG Denmark indicating that the improved
protection by zmp1 deletion is independent from the BCG sub-strain. In addition, 
unmarked BCG Δzmp1 mutant strains showed a better safety profile in a CB-17 SCID 
mouse survival model than the parental BCG strains. Together, these results
support the further development of BCG Δzmp1 for use in clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25657094  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


271. Am Heart J. 2015 Feb;169(2):266-73. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2014.09.015. Epub 2014 Nov
12.

Translation of acute coronary syndrome therapies: From evidence to routine
clinical practice.

Putera M(1), Roark R(2), Lopes RD(3), Udayakumar K(4), Peterson ED(5), Califf
RM(6), Shah BR(7).

Author information: 
(1)Duke-National University of Singapore Graduate Medical School, Singapore.
(2)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC. (3)Duke Clinical Research
Institute, Durham, NC. (4)Duke-National University of Singapore Graduate Medical 
School, Singapore; Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC. (5)Duke
University School of Medicine, Durham, NC; Duke Clinical Research Institute,
Durham, NC. (6)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC; Duke Translational
Medicine Institute, Durham, NC. (7)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham,
NC; Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, NC. Electronic address:
bimal.shah@duke.edu.

BACKGROUND: The use of evidence-based therapies has improved the outcome of
patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), but there is a time lag between the 
generation of clinical evidence and its application in routine clinical practice.
We sought to quantify temporal lags in the lifecycle of American College of
Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association (AHA) class IA ACS therapies.
METHODS: Using current and historical ACC/AHA guideline publications, we
retrieved publication dates of pivotal clinical trials (PCTs) and class IA
guideline-recommended therapies for patients with ST-elevation myocardial
infarction (STEMI) and unstable angina (UA)/non-STEMI (NSTEMI). Clinical practice
uptake data for each therapy were retrieved from the National Registry for
Myocardial Infarction, Can Rapid Risk Stratification of Unstable Angina Patients 
Suppress Adverse Outcomes with Early Implementation of the ACC/AHA Guidelines,
and Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Network Registry-Get with 
the Guidelines, which are registries containing publicly available peer-reviewed 
data. Descriptive data were calculated and compared for each phase of the
evidence lifecycle for both STEMI and UA/NSTEMI drug classifications.
RESULTS: We identified 11 class IA- and 4 class IB/IC-recommended therapies for
acute, inhospital, and discharge use for patients with STEMI or UA/NSTEMI. The
median time lags were 2 years (interquartile range [IQR], 1-4 years) from PCT to 
practice guideline recommendation, 14 years (IQR, 11-15 years) from guideline
recommendation to 90% practice uptake, and overall, a 16-year median (IQR, 13-19 
years) from PCT to 90% practice uptake.
CONCLUSIONS: The time of PCT publication to meaningful uptake of class IA ACS
therapies into clinical practice took a median of 16 years. This significant time
lag indicates systemic barriers to the translation of therapeutics into routine
clinical practice.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25641536  [PubMed - in process]


272. Am Heart J. 2015 Feb;169(2):197-204. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2014.11.003. Epub 2014
Nov 10.

Centralized adjudication of cardiovascular end points in cardiovascular and
noncardiovascular pharmacologic trials: A report from the Cardiac Safety Research
Consortium.

Seltzer JH(1), Turner JR(2), Geiger MJ(3), Rosano G(4), Mahaffey KW(5), White
WB(6), Sabol MB(7), Stockbridge N(8), Sager PT(5).

Author information: 
(1)ACI Clinical, Bala Cynwyd, PA. Electronic address: jseltzer@aciclinical.com.
(2)Quintiles, Durham, NC. (3)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc, Tarrytown, NY.
(4)Cardiovascular Working Party, European Medicines Agency, London, UK.
(5)Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA. (6)University of
Connecticut School of Medicine, Farmington, CT. (7)GlaxoSmith Kline
Pharmaceuticals Inc, Upper Providence, PA. (8)US Food and Drug Administration,
Silver Spring, MD.

This white paper provides a summary of presentations and discussions at a
cardiovascular (CV) end point adjudication think tank cosponsored by the Cardiac 
Safety Research Committee and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that was 
convened at the FDA's White Oak headquarters on November 6, 2013. Attention was
focused on the lack of clarity concerning the need for end point adjudication in 
both CV and non-CV trials: there is currently an absence of widely accepted
academic or industry standards and a definitive regulatory policy on how best to 
structure and use clinical end point committees (CECs). This meeting therefore
provided a forum for leaders in the fields of CV clinical trials and CV safety to
develop a foundation of initial best practice recommendations for use in future
CEC charters. Attendees included representatives from pharmaceutical companies,
regulatory agencies, end point adjudication specialist groups, clinical research 
organizations, and active, academically based adjudicators. The manuscript
presents recommendations from the think tank regarding when CV end point
adjudication should be considered in trials conducted by cardiologists and by
noncardiologists as well as detailing key issues in the composition of a CEC and 
its charter. In addition, it presents several recommended best practices for the 
establishment and operation of CECs. The science underlying CV event adjudication
is evolving, and suggestions for additional areas of research will be needed to
continue to advance this science. This manuscript does not constitute regulatory 
guidance.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25641528  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


273. Am J Med Genet A. 2015 Feb;167(2):296-312. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36887. Epub 2015
Jan 16.

Characterization of human disease phenotypes associated with mutations in TREX1, 
RNASEH2A, RNASEH2B, RNASEH2C, SAMHD1, ADAR, and IFIH1.

Crow YJ(1), Chase DS, Lowenstein Schmidt J, Szynkiewicz M, Forte GM, Gornall HL, 
Oojageer A, Anderson B, Pizzino A, Helman G, Abdel-Hamid MS, Abdel-Salam GM,
Ackroyd S, Aeby A, Agosta G, Albin C, Allon-Shalev S, Arellano M, Ariaudo G,
Aswani V, Babul-Hirji R, Baildam EM, Bahi-Buisson N, Bailey KM, Barnerias C,
Barth M, Battini R, Beresford MW, Bernard G, Bianchi M, Billette de Villemeur T, 
Blair EM, Bloom M, Burlina AB, Luisa Carpanelli M, Carvalho DR, Castro-Gago M,
Cavallini A, Cereda C, Chandler KE, Chitayat DA, Collins AE, Sierra Corcoles C,
Cordeiro NJ, Crichiutti G, Dabydeen L, Dale RC, D Arrigo S, De Goede CG, De Laet 
C, De Waele LM, Denzler I, Desguerre I, Devriendt K, Di Rocco M, Fahey MC, Fazzi 
E, Ferrie CD, Figueiredo A, Gener B, Goizet C, Gowrinathan NR, Gowrishankar K,
Hanrahan D, Isidor B, Kara B, Khan N, King MD, Kirk EP, Kumar R, Lagae L,
Landrieu P, Lauffer H, Laugel V, Piana RL, Lim MJ, Lin JP, Linnankivi T, Mackay
MT, Marom DR, Marques Lourenço C, McKee SA, Moroni I, Morton JE, Moutard ML,
Murray K, Nabbout R, Nampoothiri S, Nunez-Enamorado N, Oades PJ, Olivieri I,
Ostergaard JR, Pérez-Dueñas B, Prendiville JS, Ramesh V, Rasmussen M, Régal L,
Ricci F, Rio M, Rodriguez D, Roubertie A, Salvatici E, Segers KA, Sinha GP, Soler
D, Spiegel R, Stödberg TI, Straussberg R, Swoboda KJ, Suri M, Tacke U, Tan TY, Te
Water Naude J, Wee Teik K, Mary Thomas M, Till M, Tonduti D, Maria Valente E,
Noel Van Coster R, van der Knaap MS, Vassallo G, Vijzelaar R, Vogt J, Wallace GB,
Wassmer E, Webb HJ, Whitehouse WP, Whitney RN, Zaki MS, Zuberi SM, Livingston JH,
Rozenberg F, Lebon P, Vanderver A, Orcesi S, Rice GI.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR 1163, Laboratory of Neurogenetics and Neuroinflammation, Paris
Descartes - Sorbonne Paris Cité University, Institut Imagine, Hôpital Necker,
Paris, France; Manchester Centre for Genomic Medicine, Institute of Human
Development, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences, Manchester Academic Health
Sciences Centre, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

Aicardi-Goutières syndrome is an inflammatory disease occurring due to mutations 
in any of TREX1, RNASEH2A, RNASEH2B, RNASEH2C, SAMHD1, ADAR or IFIH1. We report
on 374 patients from 299 families with mutations in these seven genes. Most
patients conformed to one of two fairly stereotyped clinical profiles; either
exhibiting an in utero disease-onset (74 patients; 22.8% of all patients where
data were available), or a post-natal presentation, usually within the first year
of life (223 patients; 68.6%), characterized by a sub-acute encephalopathy and a 
loss of previously acquired skills. Other clinically distinct phenotypes were
also observed; particularly, bilateral striatal necrosis (13 patients; 3.6%) and 
non-syndromic spastic paraparesis (12 patients; 3.4%). We recorded 69 deaths
(19.3% of patients with follow-up data). Of 285 patients for whom data were
available, 210 (73.7%) were profoundly disabled, with no useful motor, speech and
intellectual function. Chilblains, glaucoma, hypothyroidism, cardiomyopathy,
intracerebral vasculitis, peripheral neuropathy, bowel inflammation and systemic 
lupus erythematosus were seen frequently enough to be confirmed as real
associations with the Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome phenotype. We observed a robust 
relationship between mutations in all seven genes with increased type I
interferon activity in cerebrospinal fluid and serum, and the increased
expression of interferon-stimulated gene transcripts in peripheral blood. We
recorded a positive correlation between the level of cerebrospinal fluid
interferon activity assayed within one year of disease presentation and the
degree of subsequent disability. Interferon-stimulated gene transcripts remained 
high in most patients, indicating an ongoing disease process. On the basis of
substantial morbidity and mortality, our data highlight the urgent need to define
coherent treatment strategies for the phenotypes associated with mutations in the
Aicardi-Goutières syndrome-related genes. Our findings also make it clear that a 
window of therapeutic opportunity exists relevant to the majority of affected
patients and indicate that the assessment of type I interferon activity might
serve as a useful biomarker in future clinical trials. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25604658  [PubMed - in process]


274. Anticancer Res. 2015 Feb;35(2):615-625.

Mechanisms and Clinical Significance of Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors:
Epigenetic Glioblastoma Therapy.

Lee P(1), Murphy B(1), Miller R(1), Menon V(1), Banik NL(2), Giglio P(3),
Lindhorst SM(1), Varma AK(1), Vandergrift WA 3rd(1), Patel SJ(1), DAS A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery & MUSC Brain & Spine Tumor Program
Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, U.S.A. (2)Department of
Neurology and Neurosurgery & MUSC Brain & Spine Tumor Program Medical University 
of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, U.S.A. Ralph H. Johnson VA Medical Center,
Charleston, SC, U.S.A. (3)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery & MUSC Brain &
Spine Tumor Program Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, U.S.A. 
Department of Neurological Surgery Ohio State University Wexner Medical College, 
Columbus, OH, U.S.A. (4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery & MUSC Brain &
Spine Tumor Program Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, U.S.A. 
dasa@musc.edu.

Glioblastoma is the most common and deadliest of malignant primary brain tumors
(Grade IV astrocytoma) in adults. Current standard treatments have been improving
but patient prognosis still remains unacceptably devastating. Glioblastoma
recurrence is linked to epigenetic mechanisms and cellular pathways. Thus,
greater knowledge of the cellular, genetic and epigenetic origin of glioblastoma 
is the key for advancing glioblastoma treatment. One rapidly growing field of
treatment, epigenetic modifiers; histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis), has now
shown much promise for improving patient outcomes through regulation of the
acetylation states of histone proteins (a form of epigenetic modulation) and
other non-histone protein targets. HDAC inhibitors have been shown, in a
pre-clinical setting, to be effective anticancer agents via multiple mechanisms, 
by up-regulating expression of tumor suppressor genes, inhibiting oncogenes,
inhibiting tumor angiogenesis and up-regulating the immune system. There are many
HDAC inhibitors that are currently in pre-clinical and clinical stages of
investigation for various types of cancers. This review will explain the theory
of epigenetic cancer therapy, identify HDAC inhibitors that are being
investigated for glioblastoma therapy, explain the mechanisms of therapeutic
effects as demonstrated by pre-clinical and clinical studies and describe the
current status of development of these drugs as they pertain to glioblastoma
therapy.

Copyright© 2015 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G.
Delinassios), All rights reserved.

PMID: 25667438  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


275. Arch Dis Child. 2015 Feb;100 Suppl 1:S48-52. doi:
10.1136/archdischild-2013-305548.

HIV and the Millennium Development Goals.

Prendergast AJ(1), Essajee S(2), Penazzato M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Paediatrics, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary University of London,
London, UK Zvitambo Institute for Maternal and Child Health Research, Harare,
Zimbabwe Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. (2)Clinton Health Access Initiative, New
York, New York, USA. (3)MRC Clinical Trials Unit at UCL, London, UK.

Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 6 has two HIV/AIDS commitments: to have halted 
and begun to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS by 2015 and to ensure access to
treatment among all those in need by 2010. Given the almost universal lack of
access to HIV testing, prevention and treatment for children in high prevalence
countries in 2000, the achievements of the past 15 years have been extraordinary,
fuelled by massive donor investment, strong political commitment and ambitious
global targets; however, MDG 6 is some way from being attained. Prevention of
mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) services have expanded enormously, with new 
infections among children falling by 58% between 2002 and 2013. There has been a 
shift towards initiation of lifelong antiretroviral therapy (ART) for pregnant
and breastfeeding women, although low HIV testing rates in pregnancy, suboptimal 
PMTCT coverage and poor retention in care remain barriers to achieving HIV
elimination among children. Early infant diagnosis has expanded substantially
but, in 2013, only 44% of all HIV-exposed infants were tested before 2 months of 
age. Diagnosis of HIV, therefore, frequently occurs late, leading to delays in
ART initiation. By the end of 2013, approximately 760 000 children were receiving
ART, leading to 40% decline in AIDS-related mortality. However, only 24% of
HIV-infected children were receiving ART, compared with 36% of adults, leading to
a 'treatment gap'. In this review, we summarise progress and remaining challenges
in reaching MDG 6 and discuss future strategies to achieve the ambitious goals of
paediatric HIV elimination and universal access to treatment.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25613968  [PubMed - in process]


276. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Feb;21(2S):S19-S24. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.12.034.

Reprint of: Recent Advances in Cytomegalovirus: An Update on Pharmacologic and
Cellular Therapies.

Boeckh M(1), Murphy WJ(2), Peggs KS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Vaccine and Infectious Disease, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. (2)Division of
Hematology/Oncology, Departments of Dermatology and Internal Medicine, University
of California, Davis School of Medicine, Davis, California. (3)Department of
Haematology, University College London Cancer Institute, London, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: k.peggs@cancer.ucl.ac.uk.

The 2015 Tandem American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation/Center for 
International Blood and Marrow Transplant Meetings provide an opportunity to
review the current status and future perspectives on therapy for cytomegalovirus 
(CMV) infection in the setting of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).
After many years during which we have seen few tangible advances in terms of new 
antiviral drugs, we are now experiencing an exciting period of late-stage drug
development, characterized by a series of phase III trials incorporating a
variety of novel agents. These trials have the potential to shift our current
standard therapeutic strategies, which generally involve pre-emptive therapy
based on sensitive molecular surveillance, towards the prophylactic approaches we
see more generally with other herpes viruses such as herpes simplex and varicella
zoster. This comes at a time when the promise of extensive preclinical research
has been translated into encouraging clinical responses with several cellular
immunotherapy strategies, which have also been moved towards definitive
late-stage clinical trials. How these approaches will be integrated with the new 
wave of antiviral drugs remains open to conjecture. Although most of the focus of
these cellular immunotherapy studies has been on adaptive immunity, and in
particular T cells, an increasing awareness of the possible role of other
cellular subsets in controlling CMV infection has developed. In particular, the
role of natural killer (NK) cells is being revisited, along with that of γδ T
cells. Depletion of NK cells in mice results in higher titers of murine CMV in
tissues and increased mortality, whereas NK cell deficiency in humans has been
linked to severe CMV disease. We will review recent progress in these areas.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25620648  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


277. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Feb;21(2S):S11-S18. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.12.033.

Reprint of: B Cells in Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease.

Sarantopoulos S(1), Blazar BR(2), Cutler C(3), Ritz J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cell Therapy and Hematologic Malignancies, Department of Medicine,
Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. (2)Division of
Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Department of Pediatrics, Masonic Cancer
Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. (3)Division of
Hematologic Malignancies, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts. (4)Division of Hematologic Malignancies, Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic
address: jerome_ritz@dfci.harvard.edu.

Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) continues to be a common complication
of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Unlike acute
graft-versus-host disease, which is mediated almost entirely by donor T cells,
the immune pathology of cGVHD is more complex and donor B cells have also been
found to play an important role. Recent studies from several laboratories have
enhanced our understanding of how donor B cells contribute to this clinical
syndrome and this has led to new therapeutic opportunities. Here, Dr
Sarantopoulos reviews some of the important mechanisms responsible for persistent
B cell activation and loss of B cell tolerance in patients with cGVHD. Dr Blazar 
describes recent studies in preclinical models that have identified novel B
cell-directed agents that may be effective for prevention or treatment of cGVHD. 
Some B cell-directed therapies have already been tested in patients with cGVHD
and Dr Cutler reviews the results of these studies documenting the potential
efficacy of this approach. Supported by mechanistic studies in patients and
preclinical models, new B cell-directed therapies for cGVHD will now be evaluated
in clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25620647  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


278. Biomed Pharmacother. 2015 Feb;69:102-10. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2014.11.012. Epub 
2014 Nov 20.

In vitro control release, cytotoxicity assessment and cellular uptake of
methotrexate loaded liquid-crystalline folate nanocarrier.

Misra R(1), Upadhyay M(2), Perumal V(2), Mohanty S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Advance Materials & Nanoscience Laboratory, Department of Chemical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi, Hauz Khas, New Delhi 110016,
India. Electronic address: biotech.rahul.mishra@gmail.com. (2)Kusuma School of
Biological Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi, Hauz Khas, New Delhi
110016, India. (3)Advance Materials & Nanoscience Laboratory, Department of
Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi, Hauz Khas, New Delhi 
110016, India.

Folate molecules self-assemble in the form of stacks to form liquid-crystalline
solutions. Nanocarriers from self-assembled folates are composed of highly
ordered structures, which offer high encapsulation of drug (95-98%), controlled
drug release rates, active cellular uptake and biocompatibility. Recently, we
have shown that the release rates of methotrexate can be controlled by varying
the size of nanoparticles, cross-linking cation and cross-linking concentration. 
The present study reports the in vitro cytotoxic behavior of methotrexate loaded 
liquid-crystalline folate nanoparticles on cultured HeLa cells. Changing drug
release rates can influence cytotoxicity of cancer cells. Therefore, to study the
correlation of release rate and cytotoxic behavior, the effect of release
controlling parameters on HeLa cells was studied through MTT assay. It is
reported that by controlling the methotrexate release, the survival rates of HeLa
cells can be controlled. Released methotrexate kills HeLa cells as effectively as
free methotrexate solution. The co-culture based in vitro cellular uptake study
through fluorescence microscopy on folate receptor positive and negative cancer
cells shows that the present nanocarrier has the potential to distinguish cancer 
cells from normal cells. Overall, the present study reports the in vitro
performance of self-assembled liquid-crystalline folate nanoparticles, which will
be a platform for further in vivo studies and clinical trials.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661345  [PubMed - in process]


279. BJU Int. 2015 Feb;115(2):198-205. doi: 10.1111/bju.12699.

The RAZOR (randomized open vs robotic cystectomy) trial: study design and trial
update.

Smith ND(1), Castle EP, Gonzalgo ML, Svatek RS, Weizer AZ, Montgomery JS, Pruthi 
RS, Woods ME, Tollefson MK, Konety BR, Shabsigh A, Krupski T, Barocas DA, Dash A,
Quek ML, Kibel AS, Parekh DJ.

Author information: 
(1)The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

The purpose of the RAZOR (randomized open vs robotic cystectomy) study is to
compare open radical cystectomy (ORC) vs robot-assisted RC (RARC), pelvic lymph
node dissection (PLND) and urinary diversion for oncological outcomes,
complications and health-related quality of life (HRQL) measures with a primary
endpoint of 2-year progression-free survival (PFS). RAZOR is a
multi-institutional, randomized, non-inferior, phase III trial that will enrol at
least 320 patients with T1-T4, N0-N1, M0 bladder cancer with ≈160 patients in
both the RARC and ORC arms at 15 participating institutions. Data will be
collected prospectively at each institution for cancer outcomes, complications of
surgery and HRQL measures, and then submitted to trial data management services
Cancer Research and Biostatistics (CRAB) for final analyses. To date, 306
patients have been randomized and accrual to the RAZOR trial is expected to
conclude in 2014. In this study, we report the RAZOR trial experimental design,
objectives, data safety, and monitoring, and accrual update. The RAZOR trial is a
landmark study in urological oncology, randomizing T1-T4, N0-N1, M0 patients with
bladder cancer to ORC vs RARC, PLND and urinary diversion. RAZOR is a
multi-institutional, non-inferiority trial evaluating cancer outcomes, surgical
complications and HRQL measures of ORC vs RARC with a primary endpoint of 2-year 
PFS. Full data from the RAZOR trial are not expected until 2016-2017.

© 2014 The Authors. BJU International © 2014 BJU International.

PMID: 25626182  [PubMed - in process]


280. Br J Gen Pract. 2015 Feb;65(631):e121-32. doi: 10.3399/bjgp15X683569.

International variation in GP treatment strategies for subclinical hypothyroidism
in older adults: a case-based survey.

den Elzen WP(1), Lefèbre-van de Fliert AA(1), Virgini V(2), Mooijaart SP(3), Frey
P(4), Kearney PM(5), Kerse N(6), Mallen CD(7), McCarthy VJ(5), Muth C(8),
Rosemann T(9), Russell A(5), Schers H(10), Stott DJ(11), de Waal MW(1), Warner
A(12), Westendorp RG(13), Rodondi N(2), Gussekloo J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden University Medical
Center, Leiden, the Netherlands. (2)Department of General Internal Medicine,
Inselspital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland. (3)Institute for
Evidence-Based Medicine in Old Age (IEMO), Leiden, the Netherlands, and
Department of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Leiden University Medical Center,
Leiden, the Netherlands. (4)Bern Institute of General Practice, University of
Bern, Bern, Switzerland. (5)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health,
University College Cork, Cork, Ireland. (6)Department of General Practice and
Primary Health Care, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (7)Arthritis 
Research UK Primary Care Centre, Keele University, Keele, Staffordshire, UK.
(8)Institute of General Practice, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, Frankfurt,
Germany. (9)Institute of General Practice and Health Services Research,
University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. (10)Department of Primary and
Community Care, Radboud University Medical Center Nijmegen, Nijmegen, the
Netherlands. (11)Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, University of 
Glasgow, Scotland, UK. (12)Research Department of Primary Care and Population
Health, University College London, UK. (13)Department of Gerontology and
Geriatrics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands, and Leyden
Academy on Vitality and Ageing, Leiden, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: There is limited evidence about the impact of treatment for
subclinical hypothyroidism, especially among older people.
AIM: To investigate the variation in GP treatment strategies for older patients
with subclinical hypothyroidism depending on country and patient characteristics.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Case-based survey of GPs in the Netherlands, Germany,
England, Ireland, Switzerland, and New Zealand.
METHOD: The treatment strategy of GPs (treatment yes/no, starting-dose thyroxine)
was assessed for eight cases presenting a woman with subclinical hypothyroidism. 
The cases differed in the patient characteristics of age (70 versus 85 years),
vitality status (vital versus vulnerable), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) 
concentration (6 versus 15 mU/L).
RESULTS: A total of 526 GPs participated (the Netherlands n = 129, Germany n =
61, England n = 22, Ireland n = 21, Switzerland n = 262, New Zealand n = 31;
overall response 19%). Across countries, differences in treatment strategy were
observed. GPs from the Netherlands (mean treatment percentage 34%), England
(40%), and New Zealand (39%) were less inclined to start treatment than GPs in
Germany (73%), Ireland (62%), and Switzerland (52%) (P = 0.05). Overall, GPs were
less inclined to start treatment in 85-year-old than in 70-year-old females
(pooled odds ratio [OR] 0.74 [95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.63 to 0.87]).
Females with a TSH of 15 mU/L were more likely to get treated than those with a
TSH of 6 mU/L (pooled OR 9.49 [95% CI = 5.81 to 15.5]).
CONCLUSION: GP treatment strategies of older people with subclinical
hypothyroidism vary largely by country and patient characteristics. This
variation underlines the need for a new generation of international guidelines
based on the outcomes of randomised clinical trials set within primary care.

© British Journal of General Practice 2015.

PMID: 25624308  [PubMed - in process]


281. Cancer Discov. 2015 Feb;5(2):118-23. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-14-1118.

Database of genomic biomarkers for cancer drugs and clinical targetability in
solid tumors.

Dienstmann R(1), Jang IS(2), Bot B(2), Friend S(2), Guinney J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sage Bionetworks, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington.
rodrigo.dienstmann@sagebase.org. (2)Sage Bionetworks, Fred Hutchinson Cancer
Research Center, Seattle, Washington.

SUMMARY: Comprehensive genomic profiling is expected to revolutionize cancer
therapy. In this Prospective, we present the prevalence of mutations and
copy-number alterations with predictive associations across solid tumors at
different levels of stringency for gene-drug targetability. More than 90% of The 
Cancer Genome Atlas samples have potentially targetable alterations, the majority
with multiple events, illustrating the challenges for treatment prioritization
given the complexity of the genomic landscape. Nearly 80% of the variants in
rarely mutated oncogenes are of uncertain functional significance, reflecting the
gap in our understanding of the relevance of many alterations potentially linked 
to therapeutic actions. Access to targeted agents in early clinical trials could 
affect treatment decision in 75% of patients with cancer. Prospective
implementation of large-scale molecular profiling and standardized reports of
predictive biomarkers are fundamental steps for making precision cancer medicine 
a reality. Cancer Discov; 5(2); 118-23. ©2015 AACR.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25656898  [PubMed - in process]


282. Cancer Discov. 2015 Feb;5(2):100. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-NB2014-190. Epub 2014
Dec 26.

Two drugs beat back lung tumors.

[No authors listed]

Patients with non-small cell lung cancer who take an EGFR inhibitor often develop
resistance to the therapy due to the T790M mutation. Two new drugs that are
effective against activated EGFR harboring T790M-rociletinib and ASP8273-shrank
patients' tumors in two separate early-phase clinical trials.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25656878  [PubMed - in process]


283. Chest. 2015 Feb 1;147(2):552-9. doi: 10.1378/chest.14-0819.

The value of respiratory muscle testing in children with neuromuscular disease.

Fauroux B, Quijano-Roy S, Desguerre I, Khirani S.

Routine lung function and respiratory muscle testing are recommended in children 
with neuromuscular disease (NMD), but these tests are based on noninvasive
volitional maneuvers, such as the measurement of lung volumes and maximal static 
pressures, that young children may not always be able to perform. The realization
of simple natural maneuvers such as a sniff or a cough, and the measurement of
esophageal and gastric pressures during spontaneous breathing can add valuable
information about the strength and endurance of the respiratory muscles in young 
children. Monitoring respiratory muscles in children with NMD may improve
understanding of the natural history of NMD and the evaluation of disease
severity. It may assist and guide clinical management and it may help the
identification and selection of optimal end points, as well as the most
informative parameters and patients for clinical trials.

PMID: 25644908  [PubMed - in process]


284. Chirurg. 2015 Feb;86(2):175-80. doi: 10.1007/s00104-014-2975-8.

[Peritoneal adhesion formation].

[Article in German]

Hong G(1), Vilz TO, Kalff JC, Wehner S.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Allgemein-, Viszeral-, Thorax- und Gefäßchirurgie,
Universitätsklinikum Bonn, Bonn, Deutschland.

Postoperative peritoneal adhesions are common sequelae of abdominal surgery.
Acute as well as chronic complications, including bowel obstruction, abdominal
pain and infertility can arise from adhesion formation. So far, the only reliable
treatment is surgical adhesiolysis, which in turn is accompanied by an increased 
risk of adhesion recurrence. Despite significant progress in modern perioperative
medicine, only limited prophylactic approaches are available and atraumatic
surgery is still the most important factor.Current research concepts focus on two
major antiadhesion strategies: firstly, the intraoperative placement of
mechanical barriers and secondly novel immunomodulation concepts. Clinical data
about the use of antiadhesive barriers show a heterogeneous outcome. Promising
data have arisen from the immunomodulatory approaches and now require a step-up
development from experimental to clinical trial level.The present review gives a 
short overview about the current research on the pathophysiology and prevention
of peritoneal adhesions. The promising data are encouraging and require
realization of carefully designed prospective clinical trials.

PMID: 25673225  [PubMed - in process]


285. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2015 Feb;8(2). pii: e001895. doi:
10.1161/CIRCINTERVENTIONS.114.001895.

Impact of mitral regurgitation on clinical outcomes of patients with low-ejection
fraction, low-gradient severe aortic stenosis undergoing transcatheter aortic
valve implantation.

O'Sullivan CJ(1), Stortecky S(1), Bütikofer A(1), Heg D(1), Zanchin T(1), Huber
C(1), Pilgrim T(1), Praz F(1), Buellesfeld L(1), Khattab AA(1), Blöchlinger S(1),
Carrel T(1), Meier B(1), Zbinden S(1), Wenaweser P(1), Windecker S(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Cardiology (C.J.O., S.S., A.B., T.Z., T.P., F.P., L.B.,
A.A.K., S.B., B.M., S.Z., P.W., S.W.), Department of Cardiovascular Surgery
(C.H., T.C.), and Clinical Trials Unit (D.H.), Bern University Hospital, Bern,
Switzerland; and Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Bern,
Bern, Switzerland (D.H.). (2)From the Department of Cardiology (C.J.O., S.S.,
A.B., T.Z., T.P., F.P., L.B., A.A.K., S.B., B.M., S.Z., P.W., S.W.), Department
of Cardiovascular Surgery (C.H., T.C.), and Clinical Trials Unit (D.H.), Bern
University Hospital, Bern, Switzerland; and Institute of Social and Preventive
Medicine, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland (D.H.).
Stephan.Windecker@insel.ch.

BACKGROUND: Up to 1 in 6 patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve
implantation (TAVI) present with low-ejection fraction, low-gradient (LEF-LG)
severe aortic stenosis and concomitant relevant mitral regurgitation (MR) is
present in 30% to 55% of these patients. The effect of MR on clinical outcomes of
LEF-LG patients undergoing TAVI is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Of 606 consecutive patients undergoing TAVI, 113 (18.7%)
patients with LEF-LG severe aortic stenosis (mean gradient ≤40 mm Hg, aortic
valve area <1.0 cm(2), left ventricular ejection fraction <50%) were analyzed.
LEF-LG patients were dichotomized into ≤mild MR (n=52) and ≥moderate MR (n=61).
Primary end point was all-cause mortality at 1 year. No differences in mortality 
were observed at 30 days (P=0.76). At 1 year, LEF-LG patients with ≥moderate MR
had an adjusted 3-fold higher rate of all-cause mortality (11.5% versus 38.1%;
adjusted hazard ratio, 3.27 [95% confidence interval, 1.31-8.15]; P=0.011), as
compared with LEF-LG patients with ≤mild MR. Mortality was mainly driven by
cardiac death (adjusted hazard ratio, 4.62; P=0.005). As compared with LEF-LG
patients with ≥moderate MR assigned to medical therapy, LEF-LG patients with
≥moderate MR undergoing TAVI had significantly lower all-cause mortality (hazard 
ratio, 0.38; 95% confidence interval, 0.019-0.75) at 1 year.
CONCLUSIONS: Moderate or severe MR is a strong independent predictor of late
mortality in LEF-LG patients undergoing TAVI. However, LEF-LG patients assigned
to medical therapy have a dismal prognosis independent of MR severity suggesting 
that TAVI should not be withheld from symptomatic patients with LEF-LG severe
aortic stenosis even in the presence of moderate or severe MR.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

PMID: 25657315  [PubMed - in process]


286. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Feb 1;21(3):493-4. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-2547.

CCR 20th Anniversary Commentary: Radioactive Drones for B-cell Lymphoma.

Knox SJ(1), Levy R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California. sknox@stanford.edu. (2)Department of Medicine, Division of 
Oncology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.

In a study published in the March 1, 1996, issue of Clinical Cancer Research,
Knox and colleagues (1) demonstrated the safety and efficacy of Yttirium-90
((90)Y)-anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody therapy, as well as the benefit of
preinfusion of unlabeled antibody on radiolabeled antibody biodistribution.
Subsequent clinical trials with this radiolabeled antibody led to regulatory
approval of this treatment for B-cell lymphoma.Clin Cancer Res; 21(3); 493-4.
©2015 AACR. See related article by Knox et al., Clin Cancer Res 1996;2(3) Mar
1996; 457-70.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25646179  [PubMed - in process]


287. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Feb;97(2):143-50. doi: 10.1002/cpt.31. Epub 2015 Jan 9.

Nocebo vs. Placebo: The Challenges of Trial Design in Analgesia Research.

Vase L(1), Amanzio M, Price D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Behavioural Sciences, School of Business and
Social Sciences, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.

The placebo effect in randomized clinical trials appears to have increased
thereby contributing to problems of demonstrating statistically reliable effects 
of treatments that directly target biological mechanisms. The shortcomings of
randomized clinical trials are currently discussed along with potential
improvements of trial designs. In this review we explain how utilizing knowledge 
from the placebo and nocebo mechanisms literature could improve the information
that can be obtained from randomized clinical trials. We present three major
challenges in randomized clinical trials: (i) increasing placebo effects, (ii)
variability of the placebo effect, and (iii) risk of un-blinding. We then explain
how recent placebo and nocebo studies of effects of verbal suggestion,
expectancy, and emotions may improve understanding and discussion of increasing
placebo effects, account/control for large parts of the variability of placebo
effects, and suggest ways to improve blinding in future trials.

© 2014 American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.

PMID: 25670519  [PubMed - in process]


288. Complement Ther Med. 2015 Feb;23(1):100-15. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2014.12.008. Epub
2015 Jan 6.

Classic herbal formula Zhigancao Decoction for the treatment of premature
ventricular contractions (PVCs): A systematic review of randomized controlled
trials.

Liu W(1), Xiong X(2), Feng B(2), Yuan R(2), Chu F(3), Liu H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Capital Medical University, Beijing 100010, China. (2)Department of Cardiology,
Guang'anmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100053, 
China. (3)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Capital Medical University, Beijing 100010, China. Electronic address: 
chufuyong2014@163.com. (4)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Hospital of
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Capital Medical University, Beijing 100010, China. 
Electronic address: lhxcardiology@163.com.

BACKGROUND: To systematically assess the current clinical evidence of Zhigancao
(ZGC) Decoction for premature ventricular contractions (PVCs).
SEARCH STRATEGY: PubMed, the Cochrane Center Controlled Trials Register, EMBASE, 
Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure, Chinese Scientific Journal Database,
and Wanfang Med Online Database were searched until June 2014. We included
randomized clinical trials testing ZGC Decoction against anti-arrhythmic drugs,
ZGC Decoction combined with anti-arrhythmic drugs versus anti-arrhythmic drugs
alone. Study selection, data extraction, quality assessment, and data analyses
were conducted according to the Cochrane standards. A meta-analysis of improving 
total effects and reducing number of ventricular premature beats was performed to
evaluate the effects of ZGC Decoction on PVCs.
RESULTS: A total of 25 studies (involving 2441 patients) were included. The
methodological quality of the included trials was evaluated as generally low. The
results of the meta-analysis showed that ZGC Decoction combined with
anti-arrhythmic drugs had significant effect on improving total effects (RR: 1.30
[1.22, 1.38]; P<0.00001) and relieving number of ventricular premature beats (MD:
-6.66 [-12.94, -0.37]; P=0.04) compared with anti-arrhythmic drugs alone. Our
review showed that ZGC Decoction was more effective in improving total effects
(RR: 1.22 [1.08, 1.37]; P=0.0009), compared with anti-arrhythmic drugs alone. 13 
trials reported adverse events, while the others did not mention them, indicating
that the safety of ZGC Decoction remains uncertain.
CONCLUSIONS: ZGC Decoction appears to have beneficial effects on improvement of
total effects, reduction of number of ventricular premature beats in participants
with PVCs. However, further thorough investigation, large-scale, proper study
designed, randomized trials of ZGC Decoction for PVCs will be required to justify
the effects reported.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637158  [PubMed - in process]


289. Complement Ther Med. 2015 Feb;23(1):90-99. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2014.11.004. Epub 
2015 Jan 6.

Botanicals: An alternative remedy to radiotherapy-induced dysuria.

Jaladat AM(1), Atarzadeh F(1), Rezaeizadeh H(2), Mofid B(3), Mosalaie A(4),
Farhan F(5), Amin G(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Traditional Iranian Medicine, School of Traditional Medicine,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Department of Traditional
Iranian Medicine and Traditional Medicine & Pharmacy Research Center, Faculty of 
Traditional Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Science, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. (5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Cancer
Institute, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Tehran, Iran. (6)Department of Traditional
Iranian Medicine and Pharmacy Research Center, Faculty of traditional Medicine,
Tehran University of Medical Science, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address:
amin@tums.ac.ir.

Everyday, many patients get radiotherapy for prostatic, rectal, uterine cervix
and other pelvic organs cancer. Dysuria is common in pelvic, especially prostate 
radiotherapy, but there is not any established and confirmed treatment for this
therapeutic side effect. Therefore, an alternative therapeutic method, using
herbal preparation, may be an effective solution. This study seeks a defensible
suggestion in Iranian Traditional Medicine (ITM). In ITM, a few medicinal herbs
such as Plantago psyllium, Cydonia oblonga, Portulaca oleracea and some species
of Malvaceae and Cucurbitaceae family are indicated in treating dysuria secondary
to urethral moisturizing layer defect and inflammatory disorders. Most of these
herbs have mucilaginous characteristics and tissue regeneration ability. This
choice can be an appropriate one for radiotherapy-induced dysuria as it is
produced by a similar pathophysiology with bladder cell layer injury and
urethritis. Pharmacological properties such as anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory,
and anti-ulcerogenic activity of the offered herbs make its use justifiable. In
lack of sufficient clinical trials to clarify the clinical outcome, further
clinical investigation seems to be necessary.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637157  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


290. Crit Care Med. 2015 Feb;43(2):288-295.

Fluid Management With a Simplified Conservative Protocol for the Acute
Respiratory Distress Syndrome*

Grissom CK(1), Hirshberg EL, Dickerson JB, Brown SM, Lanspa MJ, Liu KD,
Schoenfeld D, Tidswell M, Hite RD, Rock P, Miller RR 3rd, Morris AH; National
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Clinical
Trials Network; National Heart Lung and Blood Institute Acute Respiratory
Distress Syndrome Clinical Trials Network.

Collaborators: Hudson L, Gundel S, Hough C, Neff M, Sims K, Ungar A, Watkins T,
Steingrub J, Tidswell M, Braden E, DeSouza L, Germain J, Kardos C, Kelley D,
Kozikowski L, Ouellette S, Guntupalli K, Bandi V, Pope C, Ross C, Brower R,
Fessler H, Hager D, Mendez-Tellez P, Needham D, Oakjones K, Sevransky J, Workneh 
A, Shanholtz C, Herr D, Howes H, Netzer G, Rock P, Sampaio A, Titus J, Sloane P, 
Beck T, Highfield H, King S, Lee B, Bolouri N, Wiedemann HP, Ashton RW, Culver
DA, Frederick T, Guzman JA, Komara JJ Jr, Reddy AJ, Hejal R, Andrews M, Haney D, 
Connors AF, Lasalvia S, Thornton JD, Warren EL, Moss M, Burnham EL, Gray L,
Maloney J, Mealer M, Douglas I, Overdier K, Thompson K, Wolken R, Frankel S,
McKeehan J, Warner ML, Bost T, Higgins C, Hodgin K, MacIntyre N, Brown L, Cox C, 
Gentile M, Govert J, Knudsen N, Carson S, Chang L, Choudhury S, Hall W, Lanier J,
Wheeler AP, Bernard GR, Hays M, Mogan S, Rice T, Hite RD, Bender K, Harvey A,
Morris PE, Ragusky M, Wright P, Groce S, McLean J, Overton A, Truwit J, Enfield
K, Marshall M, Morris A, Austin A, Barney S, Brown S, Ferguson J, Gallo H,
Graydon T, Grissom C, Hirshberg E, Jephson A, Kumar N, Miller R, Murphy D, Orme
J, Stowe A, Struck L, Thomas F, Ward D, Weaver L, Bailey P, Beninati W, Bezdijan 
L, Clemmer T, Rimkus S, Tanaka R, Lawton C, Hanselman D, Sundar K, Alward W,
Bishop C, Eckley D, Hill T, Jensen B, Ludwig K, Nielsen D, Pearce M, Matthay MA, 
Calfee C, Daniel B, Eisner M, Garcia O, Kordesch K, Liu K, Shum N, Zhou H,
Peterson MW, Blaauw J, Van Gundy K, Albertson T, Morrissey B, Vlastelin E,
Hubmayr R, Brown D, Dubin M, Festic E, Gajic O, Hinds R, Holets S, Kor D, Lee A, 
Passe M, Simpson G, Wright J, de Boisblanc B, Antoine A, Charbonnet D, Hunt J,
Lauto P, Marr A, Meyaski G, Romaine C, Tejedor R, Brierre S, Byrne J, Jagneaux T,
LeBlanc C, Moreau K, Thomas C, Jain S, Taylor D, Seoane L, Hebert C, Thompson J, 
Simeone F, Fearon J, Schoenfeld D, Guha M, Hammond E, Lavery N, Lazar P, Morse R,
Oldmixon C, Ringwood N, Smoot E, Thompson BT, Wilson R, Harabin A, Bredow S,
Waclawiw M, Weinmann G.

Author information: 
(1)1Division of Critical Care Medicine, Intermountain Medical Center, Murray, UT.
2Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Department of Medicine, University of
Utah, Salt Lake City, UT. 3Division of Pediatric Critical Care, University of
Utah, Salt Lake City, UT. 4College of Pharmacy, University of Utah, Salt Lake
City, UT. 5Division of Nephrology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA. 6Division of Critical Care Medicine, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA. 7Biostatistics Center, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA. 8Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Baystate
Medical Center, Springfield, MA. 9Respiratory Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, OH. 10Department of Anesthesiology, University of Maryland, Baltimore,
MD.

OBJECTIVES:: In the Fluid and Catheter Treatment Trial (FACTT) of the National
Institutes of Health Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Network, a conservative 
fluid protocol (FACTT Conservative) resulted in a lower cumulative fluid balance 
and better outcomes than a liberal fluid protocol (FACTT Liberal). Subsequent
Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Network studies used a simplified
conservative fluid protocol (FACTT Lite). The objective of this study was to
compare the performance of FACTT Lite, FACTT Conservative, and FACTT Liberal
protocols.
DESIGN:: Retrospective comparison of FACTT Lite, FACTT Conservative, and FACTT
Liberal. Primary outcome was cumulative fluid balance over 7 days. Secondary
outcomes were 60-day adjusted mortality and ventilator-free days through day 28. 
Safety outcomes were prevalence of acute kidney injury and new shock.
SETTING:: ICUs of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Network participating
hospitals.
PATIENTS:: Five hundred three subjects managed with FACTT Conservative, 497
subjects managed with FACTT Liberal, and 1,124 subjects managed with FACTT Lite.
INTERVENTIONS:: Fluid management by protocol.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS:: Cumulative fluid balance was 1,918 ± 323 mL in
FACTT Lite, -136 ± 491 mL in FACTT Conservative, and 6,992 ± 502 mL in FACTT
Liberal (p < 0.001). Mortality was not different between groups (24% in FACTT
Lite, 25% in FACTT Conservative and Liberal, p = 0.84). Ventilator-free days in
FACTT Lite (14.9 ± 0.3) were equivalent to FACTT Conservative (14.6 ± 0.5) (p =
0.61) and greater than in FACTT Liberal (12.1 ± 0.5, p < 0.001 vs Lite). Acute
kidney injury prevalence was 58% in FACTT Lite and 57% in FACTT Conservative (p =
0.72). Prevalence of new shock in FACTT Lite (9%) was lower than in FACTT
Conservative (13%) (p = 0.007 vs Lite) and similar to FACTT Liberal (11%) (p =
0.18 vs Lite).
CONCLUSIONS:: FACTT Lite had a greater cumulative fluid balance than FACTT
Conservative but had equivalent clinical and safety outcomes. FACTT Lite is an
alternative to FACTT Conservative for fluid management in Acute Respiratory
Distress Syndrome.

PMID: 25599463  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


291. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2015 Feb;17(2):479. doi: 10.1007/s11883-014-0479-0.

Percutaneous versus surgical management of lower extremity peripheral artery
disease.

Kakkar AM(1), Abbott JD.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Medicine and Endovascular Interventions, Jacobi Medical Center, 1400 
Pelham Pkwy South Cardiac Cath, Bld 1, 5, West Bronx, NY, 10461, USA,
amit.kakkar@gmail.com.

Lower extremity peripheral artery disease (PAD) is highly prevalent and can
manifest as intermittent claudication or, in the most advanced form, critical
limb ischemia. Revascularization, which can be accomplished by an endovascular or
surgical approach, is performed to improve quality of life or, in severe cases,
for limb salvage. Over the past decade, percutaneous catheter-based techniques
have improved such that acute procedural success is high even in complex anatomy.
Patency rates have also increased with the use of atherectomy devices and
drug-eluting stents. Often, patients with PAD have comorbidities that increase
the risk of cardiovascular complications with surgical procedures. These factors 
have led to the adoption of an endovascular first strategy with surgical
management reserved for selected patients. This review focuses on the most
current clinical trials of endovascular therapy for PAD. In addition, older but
relevant studies comparing endovascular and surgical approaches and contemporary 
surgical trials are presented for reference.

PMID: 25612856  [PubMed - in process]


292. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2015 Feb;17(2):558. doi: 10.1007/s11886-014-0558-4.

Bypass grafting versus percutaneous intervention in multivessel coronary disease:
the current state.

Sipahi I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Acibadem University Medical School, Acibadem Maslak 
Hospital, Buyukdere Cad 40, 34457, Istanbul, Turkey, ilkesipahi@gmail.com.

Whether stenting or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is the best
revascularization strategy in patients with multivessel disease has been a
heavily debated controversy. The trials comparing the two methods were
unfortunately underpowered for mortality. Moreover, results of clinical trials
appeared to contradict with each other. Because CABG is unequivocally a more
cumbersome method, stenting became commonly preferred in the absence of evidence 
for mortality difference. Meta-analysis is a powerful tool, especially when
several high-quality randomized trials are available on the same issue. In these 
instances, meta-analyses can overcome the power limitation of the individual
trials. Our recent meta-analysis reveals that, as compared to stenting, CABG
leads to unequivocal reductions in mortality and myocardial infarctions in
patients with multivessel disease. These benefits are seen regardless of whether 
patients are diabetic or not and also do not depend on whether bare-metal or
drug-eluting stents are used.

PMID: 25618303  [PubMed - in process]


293. Curr Diab Rep. 2015 Feb;15(2):573. doi: 10.1007/s11892-014-0573-2.

From pathobiology to the targeting of pericytes for the treatment of diabetic
retinopathy.

Arboleda-Velasquez JF(1), Valdez CN, Marko CK, D'Amore PA.

Author information: 
(1)Schepens Eye Research Institute/Massachusetts Eye and Ear and the Department
of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, 20 Staniford Street, Boston, MA, 02114,
USA.

Pericytes, the mural cells that constitute the capillaries along with endothelial
cells, have been associated with the pathobiology of diabetic retinopathy;
however, therapeutic implications of this association remain largely unexplored. 
Pericytes appear to be highly susceptible to the metabolic challenges associated 
with a diabetic environment, and there is substantial evidence that their loss
may contribute to microvascular instability leading to the formation of
microaneurysms, microhemorrhages, acellular capillaries, and capillary
nonperfusion. Since pericytes are strategically located at the interface between 
the vascular and neural components of the retina, they offer extraordinary
opportunities for therapeutic interventions in diabetic retinopathy. Moreover,
the availability of novel imaging methodologies now allows for the in vivo
visualization of pericytes, enabling a new generation of clinical trials that use
pericyte tracking as clinical endpoints. The recognition of multiple signaling
mechanisms involved in pericyte development and survival should allow for a
renewed interest in pericytes as a therapeutic target for diabetic retinopathy.

PMID: 25620405  [PubMed - in process]


294. Curr Oncol Rep. 2015 Feb;17(2):427. doi: 10.1007/s11912-014-0427-8.

Targeting the androgen receptor in breast cancer.

Chia K(1), O'Brien M, Brown M, Lim E.

Author information: 
(1)Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.

The androgen receptor (AR) is expressed in the majority of breast cancer and
across the three main breast cancer subtypes. Historically, the oncogenic role of
AR has best been described in molecular apocrine breast cancers, an estrogen
receptor (ER)-/AR+ subtype which has a steroid response signature similar to that
in the ER-positive breast cancer. The signalling effect of AR is likely to be
different across breast cancer subtypes, and particularly important is its
interaction with ER signalling. Despite the high frequency of AR expression in
breast cancer, it is still not a standard clinical practice to use AR antagonists
as therapy. Older trials of AR-directed therapies in breast cancer have had
generally been disappointing. More recently, more potent, next-generation,
AR-directed therapies have been developed in the context of prostate cancer.
Here, we will review the emerging literature dissecting the role of AR signalling
in a context-dependent manner in breast cancer and the renewed interest and wave 
of clinical trials targeting the AR in breast cancer.

PMID: 25665553  [PubMed - in process]


295. Curr Oncol Rep. 2015 Feb;17(2):430. doi: 10.1007/s11912-014-0430-0.

Testicular Choriocarcinoma: a Rare Variant that Requires a Unique Treatment
Approach.

Reilley MJ(1), Pagliaro LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genitourinary Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, 1155 Pressler St., Unit 1374, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.

Testicular germ cell tumors represent the most common malignancy among young men.
While 5-year overall survival and cure for this population is greater than 95 %, 
choriocarcinoma is an aggressive subtype of this disease with far worse
prognosis-5-year survival for choriocarcinoma is less than 80 %. In order to be
able to treat these patients appropriately, a provider must recognize
characteristic features of choriocarcinoma including elevated human chorionic
gonadotropin in a young man with testicular mass; the astute clinician should
also know the signs and symptoms of choriocarcinoma syndrome, characterized by
bleeding from metastatic sites, which represents a medical emergency and is
associated with high morbidity and mortality. Treatment should be directed
towards a goal of tumor marker normalization, and patients with refractory
disease should be considered for advanced therapies and clinical trials.
Choriocarcinoma is a unique and aggressive germ cell malignancy, and these
patients require early aggressive treatment to improve their chance of survival.

PMID: 25645112  [PubMed - in process]


296. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2015 Feb;17(2):483. doi: 10.1007/s11926-014-0483-y.

Biosimilars: clinical interpretation and implications for drug development.

Mysler E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Organización Médica de Investigación, Buenos Aires, Argentina,
e.mysler@omiargentina.com.ar.

The European Medicines Agency's recent approval of biosimilars and their sudden
appearance on the market will revolutionize the way physicians treat the severe
conditions for which biologics have had a major impact. In the field of
rheumatology, these agents are especially important because most new treatments
are based on this kind of medication and because patents on the original drugs
are expiring. To use these new medications, the treating physician must read and 
understand the clinical trials related to biosimilars. These studies are not the 
typical superiority trials in which new agents are compared with standard
treatment; rather, they evaluate different formulas to determine whether they are
no better or worse. This article summarizes the clinical aspects of drug
development with regard to the efficacy and safety of these new medications.

PMID: 25618574  [PubMed - in process]


297. Curr Treat Options Neurol. 2015 Feb;17(2):331. doi: 10.1007/s11940-014-0331-4.

Selection of Warfarin or One of the New Oral Antithrombotic Agents for Long-Term 
Prevention of Stroke among Persons with Atrial Fibrillation.

Xiong Q(1), Lip GY.

Author information: 
(1)University of Birmingham Centre for Cardiovascular Science, City Hospital,
Birmingham, UK.

OPINION STATEMENT: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac 
rhythm disorder, which can potentially increases the risk of stroke by five-fold,
thus, resulting in high public healthcare burden. Stroke prevention is vital in
the management of AF patients. Vitamin K antagonists (VKA, eg, warfarin) have
been the mainstay treatment to prevent ischemic stroke and systemic
thromboembolism in AF patients for several decades. Despite the efficacy of
warfarin, its limitations have recently driven the advent of some new
antithrombotic agents, the non-VKA oral anticoagulant (NOACs, including
dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, and edoxaban). The NOACs have changed the
landscape for thromboembolic prophylaxis among patients with nonvalvular AF.
Although three NOACs thus far (dabigatran, rivaroxaban, and apixaban) have been
approved in Europe and the United States, for stroke prevention in patients with 
nonvalvular AF on the basis of several Phase III clinical trials, warfarin still 
remain important in preventing stroke for patients. This is especially true for
those with optimal control of international normalized ratio with high (>70 %)
time in therapeutic range, valvular AF or associated prosthetic valve. These
NOACs are attractive alternatives for stroke prevention in patients with
nonvalvular AF who are unable or unwilling to receive warfarin. However, several 
issues should be taken into consideration on safe and effective use of these
NOACs in day-to-day clinical practice, for example, pharmacological properties,
drug interactions, monitoring and compliance, and treatment of frail elderly
patients or patients with renal impairment, etc. The decision about whether to
initiate oral anticoagulation either with warfarin or NOACs should be
patient-centered and after consideration of both stroke and bleeding risks. It is
important for clinical practitioner to offer patients with AF an individualized
decision about drug choice, making decision after adequate patient education plus
discussion about the risks and benefits of these agents, thus fitting the drug to
the patient profile.

PMID: 25665980  [PubMed]


298. Dan Med J. 2015 Feb;61(2). pii: A5009.

Authorship issues in multi-centre clinical trials: the importance of making an
authorship contract.

Rosenberg J(1), Burcharth J, Pommergaard HC, Vinther S.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenheden, Kirurgisk Sektion D, Herlev Hospital, Herlev Ringvej 75, 2730
Herlev, Denmark. jacob.rosenberg@regionh.dk.

Discussions about authorship often arise in multi-centre clinical trials. Such
trials may involve up to hundreds of contributors of whom some will eventually
co-author the final publication. It is, however, often impossible to involve all 
contributors in the manuscript process sufficiently for them to qualify for
authorship as defined by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. 
Therefore, rules for authorship in multi-centre trials are strongly recommended. 
We propose two contracts to prevent conflicts regarding authorship; both are
freely available for use without pay but with reference to the original source.

PMID: 25634509  [PubMed - in process]


299. Dermatol Surg. 2015 Feb;41(2):219-25. doi: 10.1097/DSS.0000000000000240.

Squamous cell carcinoma of the lip in Australian patients: definitive
radiotherapy is an efficacious option to surgery in select patients.

Thanh Pham T(1), Cross S, Gebski V, Veness MJ.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Radiation Oncology, Crown Princess Mary Cancer Centre, Westmead
Hospital, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; †NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre,
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: In Australia, squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the lip is a
consequence of chronic sun exposure and treated as a nonmelanoma skin cancer.
Patients may be recommended radiotherapy (RT) as a treatment modality.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the outcome of patients with early-stage SCC of the lip
treated with definitive RT at Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia, between 1980 
and 2012.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Ninety-three patients with early-stage SCC of the lip
underwent RT. All patients were clinically node negative based on examination
and/or relevant investigations. Retrospective chart review was performed.
Patients treated since 2000 had data collected and entered prospectively.
RESULTS: The most frequently involved site was the lower lip (93%). Fifty-six
patients (60%) had T1N0 and 37 patients (40%) had T2N0 disease. Most patients
were treated with superficial or orthovoltage RT, with the median RT dose
delivered 55 Gy (range, 40 to 70 Gy). Local recurrence occurred in 5 patients
(5%), whereas regional metastases developed in 5 patients (5%). One patient
developed concurrent local and regional relapse. No patient developed distant
metastases. The 5-year recurrence-free survival was 90%.
CONCLUSION: The findings confirm the efficacy of RT as an efficacious treatment
option in early-stage lip SCC.

PMID: 25627631  [PubMed - in process]


300. Epilepsy Res. 2015 Feb;110:216-20. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.11.015. Epub
2014 Dec 13.

Efficacy and safety of perampanel in the subgroup of elderly patients included in
the phase III epilepsy clinical trials.

Leppik IE(1), Wechsler RT(2), Williams B(3), Yang H(4), Zhou S(5), Laurenza A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and College of Pharmacy, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, MN, USA. Electronic address: leppi001@umn.edu. (2)Consultants in
Epilepsy & Neurology PLLC, Boise, ID, USA. Electronic address:
rtw@idahoepilepsy.com. (3)Eisai Medical and Scientific Affairs, Woodcliff Lake,
NJ, USA. Electronic address: betsy_williams@eisai.com. (4)Eisai Neuroscience and 
General Medicine PCU, Woodcliff Lake, NJ, USA. Electronic address:
Haichen_Yang@eisai.com. (5)Eisai Medical and Scientific Affairs, Woodcliff Lake, 
NJ, USA. Electronic address: Xiaozheng_Zhou@eisai.com. (6)Eisai Neuroscience and 
General Medicine PCU, Woodcliff Lake, NJ, USA. Electronic address:
Antonio_Laurenza@eisai.com.

Clinical data regarding use of antiepileptic drugs in the elderly are generally
scarce. Therefore, a subanalysis of subjects aged ≥65 years who participated in
the 3 phase III perampanel studies was undertaken to determine efficacy and
safety in these patients. Efficacy (change in seizure frequency/28 days and 50%
responder rate) in the elderly subgroup was found to be consistent with the adult
population. Adverse event rates were also largely similar, with some exceptions. 
Because risks of falls, dizziness, and fatigue were greater in the elderly,
careful titration of perampanel in patients aged ≥65 years is suggested,
especially at higher doses, where balancing tolerability and clinical response is
necessary.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25616475  [PubMed - in process]


301. Exp Clin Psychopharmacol. 2015 Feb;23(1):1-21. doi: 10.1037/a0038550.

A brief history of the development of antidepressant drugs: From monoamines to
glutamate.

Hillhouse TM(1), Porter JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Virginia Commonwealth University.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a chronic, recurring, and debilitating mental 
illness that is the most common mood disorder in the United States. It has been
almost 50 years since the monoamine hypothesis of depression was articulated, and
just over 50 years since the first pharmacological treatment for MDD was
discovered. Several monoamine-based pharmacological drug classes have been
developed and approved for the treatment of MDD; however, remission rates are low
(often less than 60%) and there is a delayed onset before remission of depressive
symptoms is achieved. As a result of a "proof-of-concept" study in 2000 with the 
noncompetitive NMDA antagonist ketamine, a number of studies have examined the
glutamatergic systems as viable targets for the treatment of MDD. This review
will provide a brief history on the development of clinically available
antidepressant drugs, and then review the possible role of glutamatergic systems 
in the pathophysiology of MDD. Specifically, the glutamatergic review will focus 
on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and the efficacy of drugs that target
the NMDA receptor for the treatment of MDD. The noncompetitive NMDA receptor
antagonist ketamine, which has consistently produced rapid and sustained
antidepressant effects in MDD patients in a number of clinical studies, has shown
the most promise as a novel glutamatergic-based treatment for MDD. However,
compounds that target other glutamatergic mechanisms, such as GLYX-13 (a
glycine-site partial agonist at NMDA receptors) appear promising in early
clinical trials. Thus, the clinical findings to date are encouraging and support 
the continued search for and the development of novel compounds that target
glutamatergic mechanisms. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2015 APA, all rights
reserved).

PMID: 25643025  [PubMed - in process]


302. Health Aff (Millwood). 2015 Feb 1;34(2):271-6. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2014.1051.

The decline of venture capital investment in early-stage life sciences poses a
challenge to continued innovation.

Fleming JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jonathan J. Fleming (Jfleming@nehi.net) is president and treasurer of NEHI,
the Network for Excellence in Health Innovation, in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

A key element required for translating new knowledge into effective therapies is 
early-stage venture capital that finances the work needed to identify a lead
molecule or medical device prototype and to develop it to the proof-of-concept
stage. This early investment is distinguished by great uncertainty over whether
the molecule or prototype is safe and effective, the stability of the regulatory 
standards to which clinical trials are designed, and the likelihood that large
follow-on investments for commercial development can be secured. Regulatory and
reimbursement policies have a profound impact on the amount of capital and the
types of life science projects that investors pursue. In this article I analyze
several recent trends in early-stage venture capital funding, describe how these 
trends are influenced by regulatory and reimbursement policies, and discuss the
role of policy makers in bringing new treatments to market. Policy makers can
foster renewed private investment into critically needed early-stage products by 
increasing Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) funding and public support
for clinical trials in targeted areas of interest; creating regulatory pathways
to enable early testing of experimental compounds in limited populations; and
offering economic incentives for investors and developers in designated
therapeutic areas.

Project HOPE—The People-to-People Health Foundation, Inc.

PMID: 25646107  [PubMed - in process]


303. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Feb;19(11):1-138. doi: 10.3310/hta19110.

Clinical trial metadata: defining and extracting metadata on the design, conduct,
results and costs of 125 randomised clinical trials funded by the National
Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.

Raftery J(1), Young A(1), Stanton L(2), Milne R(1), Cook A(1), Turner D(1),
Davidson P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wessex Institute, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton,
UK. (2)University of Southampton Clinical Trials Unit, Southampton General
Hospital, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: By 2011, the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) programme had
published the results of over 100 trials with another 220 in progress. The aim of
the project was to develop and pilot 'metadata' on clinical trials funded by the 
HTA programme.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the project was to develop and pilot questions describing 
clinical trials funded by the HTA programme in terms of it meeting the needs of
the NHS with scientifically robust studies. The objectives were to develop
relevant classification systems and definitions for use in answering relevant
questions and to assess their utility.
DATA SOURCES: Published monographs and internal HTA documents.
REVIEW METHODS: A database was developed, 'populated' using retrospective data
and used to answer questions under six prespecified themes. Questions were
screened for feasibility in terms of data availability and/or ease of extraction.
Answers were assessed by the authors in terms of completeness, success of the
classification system used and resources required. Each question was scored to be
retained, amended or dropped.
RESULTS: One hundred and twenty-five randomised trials were included in the
database from 109 monographs. Neither the International Standard Randomised
Controlled Trial Number nor the term 'randomised trial' in the title proved a
reliable way of identifying randomised trials. Only limited data were available
on how the trials aimed to meet the needs of the NHS. Most trials were shown to
follow their protocols but updates were often necessary as hardly any trials
recruited as planned. Details were often lacking on planned statistical analyses,
but we did not have access to the relevant statistical plans. Almost all the
trials reported on cost-effectiveness, often in terms of both the primary outcome
and quality-adjusted life-years. The cost of trials was shown to depend on the
number of centres and the duration of the trial. Of the 78 questions explored, 61
were well answered, 33 fully with 28 requiring amendment were the analysis
updated. The other 17 could not be answered with readily available data.
LIMITATIONS: The study was limited by being confined to 125 randomised trials by 
one funder.
CONCLUSIONS: Metadata on randomised controlled trials can be expanded to include 
aspects of design, performance, results and costs. The HTA programme should
continue and extend the work reported here.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research HTA programme.

PMID: 25671821  [PubMed - in process]


304. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2015 Feb;14(1):34-42.

Liver protection strategies in liver transplantation.

Jia JJ(1), Li JH, Jiang L, Lin BY, Wang L, Su R, Zhou L, Zheng SS.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Combined Multi-organ Transplantation, Ministry of Health;
Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital,
Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China.
shusenzheng@zju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Liver transplantation is the therapy of choice for patients with
end-stage liver diseases. However, the gap between the low availability of organs
and high demand is continuously increasing. Innovative strategies for organ
protection are necessary to expand donor pool and to achieve better outcomes for 
liver transplantation. The present review analyzed and compared various
strategies of liver protection.
DATA SOURCES: Databases such as PubMed, Embase and Ovid were searched for the
literature related to donor liver protection strategies using following key
words: "ischemia reperfusion injury", "graft preservation", "liver
transplantation", "machine perfusion" and "conditioning". Of the 146 studies
identified, only those with cutting edge strategies were analyzed.
RESULTS: A variety of therapeutic approaches were proposed to alleviate graft
ischemia/reperfusion injury, which included static cold storage, machine
perfusion (hypothermic, normothermic and subnormothermic), manual conditioning
(pre, post and remote), and pharmacological conditioning. Evidences from animal
experiments and clinical trials suggested that all these strategies could
potentially protect liver graft; however, their clinical applications are limited
partially due to their own disadvantages.
CONCLUSIONS: There are a plenty of methods suggested to decrease the degree of
donor liver transplantation-related injury. However, none of these approaches is 
perfect in clinical practice. More translational researches (molecular and
clinical studies) are needed to improve the techniques in liver graft protection.

PMID: 25655288  [PubMed - in process]


305. Hu Li Za Zhi. 2015 Feb;62(1):87-91. doi: 10.6224/JN.62.1.87.

[Nursing care for ovarian cancer patients with intraperitoneal chemotherapy].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Lu YY(1), Chou JF(2), Tsao LI(3), Liang SY(4), Wu SF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nursing, National Taipei University of Nursing and Health
Sciences, Taiwan, ROC. yuyin@ntunhs.edu.tw. (2)Department of Nursing, Mackay
Memorial Hospital, Taiwan, ROC. (3)College of Nursing, and Vice President,
National Taipei University of Nursing and Health Sciences, Taiwan, ROC.
(4)Department of Nursing, National Taipei University of Nursing and Health
Sciences, Taiwan, ROC.

Ovarian cancer, known as a "silent killer", is the leading cause of gynecologic
cancer death. Standard treatments for ovarian cancer are debulking surgery
combined with platinum chemotherapy drugs to prolong the survival of patients.
According to clinical trials run by the American Society of Gynecologic Oncology,
patients who received intraperitoneal (IP) chemotherapy survived longer on
average than patients who received intravenous chemotherapy alone. Thus,
intraperitoneal chemotherapy is a new potential approach for treating ovarian
cancer patients. However, the toxicities and undesirable complications of IP
chemotherapy are the major challenges of this treatment approach. This article
helps nurses recognize the toxicities and complications of IP chemotherapy and
may be used as reference for future revisions to patient care guidelines.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
PMID: 25631188  [PubMed - in process]


306. Int J Stroke. 2015 Feb;10(2):140-2. doi: 10.1111/ijs.12416.

Daily National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale examinations at stroke centers: 
why not do them?

Siegler JE(1), Martin-Schild S.

Author information: 
(1)Stroke Program, Department of Neurology, Tulane University School of Medicine,
New Orleans, LA, 70112, USA.

The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale was originally designed to
stratify patients according to stroke severity for clinical trials, and now it is
used to predict disposition and prognosticate functional outcome. Many
researchers have also adopted it to trend patient progress over time and detect
early neurologic deterioration. However, few investigators have reported its
utility in monitoring the daily progress of patients hospitalized for stroke. In 
the present article, the authors discuss the advantages of daily National
Institutes of Health Stroke Scale assessments and our clinical experience with
this invaluable tool.

© 2015 World Stroke Organization.

PMID: 25598024  [PubMed - in process]


307. Intractable Rare Dis Res. 2015 Feb;4(1):39-48. doi: 10.5582/irdr.2014.01037.

Fragile X syndrome as a rare disease in China - Therapeutic challenges and
opportunities.

Jin X(1), Chen L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hua Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Recognized as the most common inherited from of intellectual disability (ID) and 
the most common known monogenic cause of autism spectrum disorders (ASD), Fragile
X syndrome (FXS) is identified as an unmet medical need for the development of
personalized medicine and targeted therapeutics for neurodevelopment disorders as
a result of improved understanding of the genetic and cellular mechanisms.
Consequently promising pharmacological targets have emerged from basic and
translational research, are now being pursued by global pharmaceutical and
biotech companies in early proof-of-concept clinical trials. With the world's
largest rare disease population, China potentially has a large number of FXS
patients, many of whom are under-diagnosed or even misdiagnosed, barely with any 
treatment. In spite of improved awareness of FXS in recent years, big gaps still 
exist between China and developed countries in multiple aspects. With increased
public awareness, strong government support and investment, coupled with an
increasingly large number of Western-trained experienced researchers engaging in 
new drug discovery and development, China has the potential to become an
important player in the discovery of effective diagnostics and treatments for a
rare disease like FXS.

PMID: 25674387  [PubMed]


308. Intractable Rare Dis Res. 2015 Feb;4(1):1-6. doi: 10.5582/irdr.2014.01018.

Current research on the treatment of primary sclerosing cholangitis.

Ali AH(1), Carey EJ(1), Lindor KD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Arizona, USA;
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Arizona, USA; ;
Arizona State University, College of Health Solutions, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.

Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a progressive disease of the liver
characterized by inflammation and destruction of the intra- and/or extra-hepatic 
bile ducts, leading to fibrosis and ultimately liver failure, cirrhosis and an
increased risk of malignancy. The etiology of PSC is unclear. It is often
associated with the inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), particularly Ulcerative
Colitis (UC); up to 75% of PSC patients have UC. PSC is more prevalent in men
than in women. Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) has been extensively studied in PSC in
randomized clinical trials but failed to show a positive impact on the natural
course of the disease. Currently, there is no effective medical therapy for PSC, 
and the majority of patients will eventually require liver transplantation. PSC
is one of the leading indications for liver transplantation. In this paper, we
review the current research on the potential therapeutic agents for the treatment
of PSC.

PMID: 25674381  [PubMed]


309. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2015 Feb;135(2):312-323. doi:
10.1016/j.jaci.2014.12.1908.

The future of biologics: Applications for food allergy.

Bauer RN(1), Manohar M(1), Singh AM(2), Jay DC(1), Nadeau KC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Immunology, Allergy, and Rheumatology, Department of
Pediatrics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, Calif.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of
Chicago, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Ill.
(3)Division of Pediatric Immunology, Allergy, and Rheumatology, Department of
Pediatrics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, Calif. Electronic
address: knadeau@stanford.edu.

Allergic diseases affect millions worldwide, with growing evidence of an increase
in allergy occurrence over the past few decades. Current treatments for allergy
include corticosteroids to reduce inflammation and allergen immunotherapy;
however, some subjects experience treatment-resistant inflammation or adverse
reactions to these treatments, and there are currently no approved therapeutics
for the treatment of food allergy. There is a dire need for new therapeutic
approaches for patients with poorly controlled atopic diseases and a need to
improve the safety and effectiveness of allergen immunotherapy. Improved
understanding of allergy through animal models and clinical trials has unveiled
potential targets for new therapies, leading to the development of several
biologics to treat allergic diseases. This review focuses on the mechanisms that 
contribute to allergy, with an emphasis on future targets for biologics for the
treatment of food allergy. These biologics include immunotherapy with novel
anti-IgE antibodies and analogs, small-molecule inhibitors of cell signaling,
anti-type 2 cytokine mAbs, and TH1-promoting adjuvants.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25662303  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


310. J Am Dent Assoc. 2015 Feb;146(2):87-93.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.adaj.2014.10.007.

Effect of preventive use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on sensitivity
after dental bleaching: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Faria-E-Silva AL, Nahsan FP, Fernandes MT, Martins-Filho PR.

BACKGROUND: Tooth sensitivity associated with bleaching remains a challenge for
clinicians. Inflammatory mediators released by the penetration of bleaching
agents into dental tissues can sensitize nociceptors, leading to tooth
sensitivity.
TYPE OF STUDIES REVIEWED: In this systematic review, the authors included
randomized clinical trials in which the investigators compared the preventive use
of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) with a placebo for sensitivity
after dental bleaching. The authors included only studies in which the
investigators evaluated in-office tooth bleaching with high-concentration
hydrogen peroxide and reported the risk or the level of tooth sensitivity after
bleaching.
RESULTS: The authors included 3 studies and evaluated the levels of sensitivity
reported at up to 1 hour after the procedure and from 1 to 24 hours after
bleaching. The authors also calculated the pooled relative risk for the effect of
preventive use of NSAIDs on sensitivity after dental bleaching. Preventive
analgesia with NSAIDs did not have a significant effect on the risk of
sensitivity after dental bleaching or on the levels of sensitivity reported by
patients.
PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS: There is insufficient evidence about the use of NSAIDs to
prevent tooth sensitivity caused by in-office bleaching procedures.

Copyright © 2015 American Dental Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25637206  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


311. J Clin Invest. 2015 Feb;125(2):462-8. doi: 10.1172/JCI68339. Epub 2015 Feb 2.

The next steps in next-gen sequencing of cancer genomes.

Hayes DN, Kim WY.

The necessary infrastructure to carry out genomics-driven oncology is now widely 
available and has resulted in the exponential increase in characterized cancer
genomes. While a subset of genomic alterations is clinically actionable, the
majority of somatic events remain classified as variants of unknown significance 
and will require functional characterization. A careful cataloging of the genomic
alterations and their response to therapeutic intervention should allow the
compilation of an "actionability atlas" and the creation of a genomic taxonomy
stratified by tumor type and oncogenic pathway activation. The next phase of
genomic medicine will therefore require talented bioinformaticians, genomic
navigators, and multidisciplinary approaches to decode complex cancer genomes and
guide potential therapy. Equally important will be the ethical and interpretable 
return of results to practicing oncologists. Finally, the integration of genomics
into clinical trials is likely to speed the development of predictive biomarkers 
of response to targeted therapy as well as define pathways to acquired
resistance.

PMID: 25642706  [PubMed - in process]


312. J Clin Invest. 2015 Feb;125(2):870-80. doi: 10.1172/JCI79213. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Vector design influences hepatic genotoxicity after adeno-associated virus gene
therapy.

Chandler RJ, LaFave MC, Varshney GK, Trivedi NS, Carrillo-Carrasco N, Senac JS,
Wu W, Hoffmann V, Elkahloun AG, Burgess SM, Venditti CP.

The use of adeno-associated virus (AAV) as a gene therapy vector has been
approved recently for clinical use and has demonstrated efficacy in a growing
number of clinical trials. However, the safety of AAV as a vector has been
challenged by a single study that documented hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after
AAV gene delivery in mice. Most studies have not noted genotoxicity following
AAV-mediated gene delivery; therefore, the possibility that there is an
association between AAV and HCC is controversial. Here, we performed a
comprehensive study of HCC in a large number of mice following therapeutic AAV
gene delivery. Using a sensitive high-throughput integration site-capture
technique and global expressional analysis, we found that AAV integration into
the RNA imprinted and accumulated in nucleus (Rian) locus, and the resulting
overexpression of proximal microRNAs and retrotransposon-like 1 (Rtl1) were
associated with HCC. In addition, we demonstrated that the AAV vector dose,
enhancer/promoter selection, and the timing of gene delivery are all critical
factors for determining HCC incidence after AAV gene delivery. Together, our
results define aspects of AAV-mediated gene therapy that influence genotoxicity
and suggest that these features should be considered for design of both safer AAV
vectors and gene therapy studies.

PMID: 25607839  [PubMed - in process]


313. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2015 Feb;13(2):125-35. doi: 10.1111/ddg.12580.

Angiogenesis in malignant melanoma.

Felcht M(1), Thomas M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Venereology, and Allergy, and Center of Excellence 
in Dermatology, the state of Baden-Württemberg, Medical Faculty Mannheim at
Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.

Despite the development of novel therapies, the therapy of malignant melanoma
remains challenging. Various studies have shown the vascular system to be pivotal
for metastasis in melanoma. Consequently, the effect of various antiangiogenic
therapies has been and is being investigated in preclinical and clinical trials. 
While most studies focus on inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) signaling, others are aimed at determining the effect of multikinase
inhibitors or the inhibition of angiogenic integrin activity. However, overall
survival rates have not significantly improved in clinical trials with
antiangiogenic agents. Resistance to anti-VEGF monotherapy has been observed in
several studies, especially in malignant melanoma. Angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2)
represents a promising candidate molecule for antiangiogenic therapy and the
effect of Ang-2 inhibitors is currently being explored in first trials. In
melanoma, Ang-2 has been shown to be a marker for metastasis formation and
represents an interesting therapeutic target molecule. Future studies are
required to analyze the effect of a combined approach, using anti-VEGF and
anti-Ang-2, as therapy for malignant melanoma.

© 2015 Deutsche Dermatologische Gesellschaft (DDG). Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25631130  [PubMed - in process]


314. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2015 Feb;13(2):143-9. doi: 10.1111/ddg.12559. Epub 2015 Jan
16.

Skin and wound decontamination of multidrug-resistant bacteria by cold
atmospheric plasma coagulation.

Daeschlein G(1), Napp M, Lutze S, Arnold A, von Podewils S, Guembel D, Jünger M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology of the Ernst Moritz Arndt University, Greifswald,
Germany.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Novel concepts to limit the spread of
multidrug-resistant bacteria (MDR) are urgently needed. Since treatment with cold
atmospheric plasma (CAP) has shown significant antibacterial properties, the
purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of CAP to eliminate MDR-
compared to non-MDR-pathogens in chronic wounds.
METHODS: Eleven patients with 18 heavily colonized wounds were treated with a
CE-certified commercial argon-based CAP source for 10 s/cm(2) in one session. The
antimicrobial efficacy was assessed by calculating the microbial load before and 
after treatment.
RESULTS: A single CAP treatment reduced MDR in all wounds. In 14 treatments (63.6
%) and for 16 pathogens (66.7 %), a 100 % reduction of the bacterial load was
observed. For 11 of 17 (64.7 %) MDR-pathogens and for 5 of 7 (71.4 %) other
non-MDR-pathogens, complete eradication was achieved. The remaining 8 treatments 
showed reductions of 77.5 ± 18.6 % and the remaining pathogens a reduction of
74.8 ± 25.7 %.
CONCLUSIONS: As proof of principle, argon-based CAP serves as a potent treatment 
modality that was shown to limit MDR microbial colonization. The possible role of
CAP in clinical MDR decontamination must be evaluated in clinical trials with
repeated plasma treatment embedded in a comprehensive hygienic decontamination
concept.

© 2015 Deutsche Dermatologische Gesellschaft (DDG). Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25597338  [PubMed - in process]


315. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2015 Feb;6(1):45-52. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2014.054.

A nomogram that predicts pathologic complete response to neoadjuvant
chemoradiation also predicts survival outcomes after definitive chemoradiation
for esophageal cancer.

Lin SH(1), Wang J(1), Allen PK(1), Correa AM(1), Maru DM(1), Swisher SG(1),
Hofstetter WL(1), Liao Z(1), Ajani JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Radiation Oncology, 2 Department of Thoracic and
Cardiovascular Surgery, 3 Department of Pathology, 4 Department of
Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: Pathologic complete response (pCR) to neoadjuvant chemoradiation for 
esophageal cancer is associated with improved outcomes. We evaluated whether a
nomogram designed to predict who would have a pCR after trimodality therapy could
also predict outcome after definitive chemoradiation.
METHODS: Patients in this retrospective, single-institution analysis had received
chemoradiation without surgery for esophageal cancer from 1998 through 2010; 333 
such patients had complete information on all variables required for the pCR
nomogram: sex; T status (by endoscopic sonography); tumor grade; tumor avidity on
positron emission tomography (PET); and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)-directed
biopsy results after chemoradiation. We used multivariate Cox regression to test 
potential associations between clinical outcomes [overall survival (OS),
locoregional recurrence, and distant metastasis] and patient or treatment factors
and the pCR nomogram score; the component variables of the nomogram were not
reintroduced into the multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: The median follow-up time for all patients (median age 66 years) was
18.2 months (30.7 months for those alive at the time of analysis). Patients with 
nomogram scores ≤125 (median for all patients) had significantly worse outcomes
than patients with scores >125: median OS time 19.7 vs. 48.2 months; disease-free
survival (DFS) time 6.1 vs. 31.1 months; locoregional failure-free survival time 
17.7 months vs. not reached; and distant metastasis-free survival time 11.7
months vs. not reached (all P<0.001). Multivariate Cox regression analysis
indicated that nomogram score independently predicted each survival outcome,
along with other patient and disease factors.
CONCLUSIONS: The pCR nomogram score predicted survival outcomes in patients
receiving definitive chemoradiation for esophageal cancer. Although this nomogram
requires further validation, it may prove useful for stratifying patients for
clinical trials designed to intensify treatments for patients at the highest risk
of relapse.

PMCID: PMC4294819
PMID: 25642337  [PubMed]


316. J Invasive Cardiol. 2015 Feb;27(2):99-104.

Nickel elution properties of contemporary interatrial shunt closure devices.

Verma DR(1), Khan MF, Tandar A, Rajasekaran NS, Neuharth R, Patel AN, Muhlestein 
JB, Badger RS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Utah School of Medicine, 50
North Medical Drive, Suite 4A100 SOM, Salt Lake City, UT 84132 USA.
div.verma@hsc.utah.edu.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to compare nickel elution properties of contemporary
interatrial shunt closure devices in vitro.
INTRODUCTION: There are two United States Food and Drug Administration
(FDA)-approved devices for percutaneous closure of secundum atrial septal defect:
the Amplatzer septal occluder (ASO; St Jude Medical Corporation) and Gore Helex
septal occluder (HSO; W.L. Gore & Associates). The new Gore septal occluder (GSO)
device is in clinical trials. These are also used off-label for patent foramen
ovale closure in highly selected patients. These devices have high nickel
content. Nickel allergy is the most common reason for surgical device
explantation. Nickel elution properties of contemporary devices remain unknown.
METHODS: We compared nickel elution properties of 4 devices - ASO, GSO, HSO, and 
sternal wire (SW) - while Dulbecco's phosphate-buffered saline (DPBS) served as
control. Three samples of each device were submerged in DPBS. Nickel content was 
measured at 14 intervals over 90 days.
RESULTS: Nickel elution at 24 hours, compared to control (0.005 ± 0.0 mg/L), was 
significantly higher for ASO (2.98 ± 1.65 mg/L; P=.04) and SW (0.03 ± 0.014 mg/L;
P=.03). Nickel levels at 90 days, compared to control (0.005 ± 0.0 mg/L) and
adjusting for multiple comparisons, were significantly higher for ASO (19.80 ±
2.30 mg/L; P=.01) and similar for HSO (P=.34), GSO (P=.34), and SW (P=.34). ASO
had significantly higher nickel elution compared to HSO, GSO, and SW (P=.01).
CONCLUSION: There is substantial variability in nickel elution; devices with less
exposed nickel (HSO and GSO) have minimal elution. The safety of low nickel
elution devices in patients with nickel allergy needs to be evaluated in
prospective trials.

PMID: 25661761  [PubMed - in process]


317. J Invasive Cardiol. 2015 Feb;27(2):85-92.

Bioresorbable vascular scaffold thrombosis in an all-comer patient population:
single-center experience.

Azzalini L(1), L'Allier PL.

Author information: 
(1)Desgroseillers-Bérard Chair in Interventional Cardiology, University of
Montreal, Director, Interventional Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Montreal
Heart Institute, 5000 Bélanger Est - Montréal, Québec, H1T 1C8 Canada.
philippe.lallier@icm-mhi.org.

Experience with bioresorbable vascular scaffolds (BVSs) outside clinical trials
is scarce, and data from "real-world" use are needed. In particular, there are
few data on scaffold thrombosis (ST). We report our experience with ST in our
all-comer BVS population (n = 339) and review the literature on the topic. Four
cases (1.2%) of early definite ST were identified. Multiple risk factors were
present in all 4 cases. Optical coherence tomography ruled out mechanical causes 
of ST in 2 cases, whereas scaffold underexpansion was observed in 1 case. Twelve 
BVS series have been published to date. Total sample size includes 1393 patients,
with 13 cases of definite ST (0.9%), which is similar to long-term
second-generation drug-eluting stent thrombosis rate (1.0%). Eleven of these
cases were early ST (8 during the first week). Six of these 11 cases occurred in 
patients who received a BVS in the setting of an acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
It can be speculated that the prothrombotic milieu of ACS, coupled with the
unfavorable peristrut rheology of BVSs, might promote ST early after
implantation, particularly if other concomitant risk factors are present.

PMID: 25661759  [PubMed - in process]


318. J Knee Surg. 2015 Feb;28(1):63-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1543956. Epub 2015 Jan 19.

Autologous-conditioned serum: evidence for use in the knee.

Frisbie DD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Orthopaedic Research Center, Colorado State University, Fort Collins,
Colorado.

Since the first description of autologous-conditioned serum (ACS) almost two
decades ago, there has been a presumption of beneficial proteins found within
this product. Thought to be a key protein in ACS, interleukin 1 receptor
antagonist (IL-1Ra) has received the majority of the attention; although the
extent of biological proteins is not known and likely because of the autologous
nature of the product, vary from individual to individual. Following the positive
anecdotal evidence, preclinical data demonstrated both symptom and
disease-modifying effects. These results were followed by two randomized
placebo-controlled clinical trials, both showing significant improvement compared
with placebo or hyaluronan acid in one study for quality of life, pain, and
patient assessed efficacy when ACS was administered in the human knee. Much is
still unknown regarding the key active proteins found in ACS as well as
definitive dosing, frequency, and administration time postinjury, which hopefully
will be the focus of future studies.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

PMID: 25599270  [PubMed - in process]


319. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2015 Feb;21(2):165-75.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of allopurinol versus febuxostat in chronic gout
patients: a u.s. Payer perspective.

Gandhi PK(1), Gentry WM, Ma Q, Bottorff MB.

Author information: 
(1)South College School of Pharmacy, 400 Goodys Ln., Knoxville, TN 37922.
pgandhi@southcollegetn.edu.

BACKGROUND: Gout is a chronic inflammatory condition associated with poor urate
metabolism. Xanthine oxidase inhibitors such as allopurinol and febuxostat are
recommended to reduce uric acid levels and to prevent gout attacks in adult
patients. Under budget-driven constraints, health care payers are faced with the 
broader challenge of assessing the economic value of these agents for formulary
placement. However, the economic value of allopurinol versus febuxostat has not
be assessed in patients with gout over a 5-year time period in the United
States. 
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of allopurinol versus febuxostat in
adult patients with gout over a 5-year time period from a U.S. health care
payer's perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to compare the total direct costs and
success of serum uric acid (sUA) level reduction associated with allopurinol and 
febuxostat. Treatment success was defined as patient achievement of a sUA level
less than  6 mg/dL (0.36 mmol/L) at 6 months. Event probabilities were based on
published phase III randomized clinical trials and included long-term sequelae
from open-label extension studies. A hypothetical cohort of 1,000 adult gout
patients with sUA levels of ≥ 8 mg/dL (0.48 mmol/L) who had received either
allopurinol 300 mg or febuxostat 80 mg at model entry transitioned among the 4
health states defined by treatment success, treatment failure and switch,
treatment dropout, and death. The length of each Markov cycle was 6 months. Costs
were gathered from the RED BOOK, Medicare fee schedules, Healthcare Cost and
Utilization Project's Nationwide Inpatient Sample, and for a limited number of
inputs, expert consultation. Direct costs included treatment drug costs, costs
for prophylaxis drugs, diagnostic laboratory tests, and the treatment and
management of acute gout flare. Resource utilization was based on clinical
evidence and expert consultation. All costs were inflated to 2014 U.S. dollars
and were discounted at 3% in the base case. One-way sensitivity analysis and
probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSAs) were performed to assess the robustness
of the results. 
RESULTS: The total per patient cost incurred over 5 years was $50,295 for
febuxostat and $48,413 for allopurinol, with an incremental total cost of $1,882.
The expected percentage of treatment success during the 5-year period was 72 for 
febuxostat and 42 for allopurinol, resulting in an incremental percentage of
treatment success of 30. The estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for
febuxostat compared with allopurinol was $6,322 per treatment success over a
5-year time period. The one-way sensitivity analysis indicated that the results
were sensitive to probability of treatment success for allopurinol, probability
of treatment dropouts for both allopurinol and febuxostat, and the probability of
failure and switch to allopurinol. PSAs demonstrated that at a willingness-to-pay
threshold of $50,000 per treatment success, febuxostat was cost-effective
compared with allopurinol. 
CONCLUSIONS: Febuxostat was found to be a cost-effective option compared with
allopurinol based on a U.S. payer perspective.

PMID: 25615006  [PubMed - in process]


320. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2015 Feb;21(2):114-22.

Emergence of BCR-ABL Kinase Domain Mutations Associated with Newly Diagnosed
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia: A Meta-Analysis of Clinical Trials of Tyrosine Kinase
Inhibitors.

Ursan ID(1), Jiang R, Pickard EM, Lee TA, Ng D, Pickard AS.

Author information: 
(1)University of Illinois College of Pharmacy, 833 S. Wood St., Rm. 254, M/C 871,
Chicago, IL 60612. pickard1@uic.edu.

BACKGROUND: Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are a mainstay of treatment for
patients suffering from chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Testing for various
mutations in the BCR-ABL gene may help predict lack of response to specific TKIs 
where resistance has developed. 
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the emergence of BCR-ABL kinase domain mutations
associated with newly diagnosed CML patients exposed to first-line TKI
treatment. 
METHODS: Published studies were identified using a structured search of online
databases. Original research studies were included if they reported the incidence
of specific BCR-ABL kinase domain point mutations after first-line TKI treatment 
failure or baseline mutations for second-line TKI treatment following first-line 
treatment failure. Meta-analysis of mutation rates across studies was based on
DerSimonian and Laird's random-effects model. 
RESULTS: Of 1,323 citations, 12 studies met the inclusion criteria, involving a
total of 1,698 patients. Overall mutation rates (95% CI) were imatinib 9.7%
(6.2%-13.3%); dasatanib 1.7% (0.0%-4.3%); and nilotinib 3.3% (0.0%-7.7%). The
most common specific mutations were T315I, E255K, and M351T. T315I mutations
constituted 58% (7 of 12) of dasatinib-related mutations and 13% (15 of 117) of
imatinib-related mutations. 
CONCLUSIONS: Lack of response to TKIs associated with mutation in the BCR-ABL
gene was significantly higher in imatinib-treated patients, and all mutations
arose after treatment. T315I was a common treatment-emergent mutation. Further
research is needed to assess the prognostic value of testing for mutations and
the economic implications of treatment-emergent mutations.

PMID: 25615000  [PubMed - in process]


321. J Periodontol. 2015 Feb;86(2 Suppl):S8-S51. doi: 10.1902/jop.2015.130674.

Periodontal soft tissue root coverage procedures: a systematic review from the
AAP regeneration workshop.

Chambrone L(1), Tatakis DN.

Author information: 
(1)UIBO (Unit of Basic Oral Investigation), Faculty of Dentistry, El Bosque
University, Bogotá, Colombia.

BACKGROUND: This paper aims to create a "bridge" between research and practice by
developing a practical, extensive, and clinically relevant study that translates 
evidence-based findings on soft tissue root coverage (RC) of recession-type
defects to daily clinical practice.
METHODS: This review is prepared in accordance with the PRISMA (Preferred
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) statement based on the 
proposed focused questions. A literature search with no restrictions regarding
status or the language of publication was performed for MEDLINE and EMBASE
databases up to and including June 2013. Systematic reviews (SRs), randomized
clinical trials, controlled clinical trials, case series, and case reports
evaluating recession areas that were treated by means of RC procedures were
considered eligible for inclusion through the three parts of the study (part I,
an overview of the base of SRs; part II, an alternative random-effects
meta-analyses on mean percentage of RC and sites exhibiting complete RC; and part
III, an SR of non-randomized trials exploring other conditions not extensively
evaluated by previous SRs). Data on Class I, II, III, and IV recessions, type of 
histologic attachment achieved with treatment, recipient- and donor-site anatomic
characteristics, smoking-related outcomes, root surface conditions, tooth type
and location, long-term effectiveness outcomes, unusual conditions that may be
reported during conventional daily practice, and patient-centered outcomes were
assessed as well.
RESULTS: Of the 2,456 potentially eligible trials, 234 were included. Data on
Class I, II, III, and IV gingival recessions, histologic attachment achieved
after treatment, recipient- and donor-site anatomic characteristics,
smoking-related outcomes, root surface conditions/biomodification, tooth type and
location, long-term effectiveness outcomes and unusual conditions that may be
reported during conventional daily practice, and patient-centered outcomes (i.e.,
esthetic, visual analog scale, complications, hypersensitivity, patients
perceptions) were assessed. Subepithelial connective tissue (CT)-based procedures
and coronally advanced flap plus acellular dermal matrix grafts, enamel matrix
derivative, or collagen matrix led to the best improvements of recession depth,
clinical attachment level (CAL) gain, and keratinized tissue (KT). Some
conditions, such as smoking and use of magnification, may affect RC outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: All RC procedures can provide significant reduction in recession
depth and CAL gain for Miller Class I and II recession-type defects.
Subepithelial CT graft-based procedures provided the best outcomes for clinical
practice because of their superior percentages of mean and complete RC, as well
as significant increase of KT.

PMID: 25644302  [PubMed - in process]


322. J Periodontol. 2015 Feb;86(2 Suppl):S56-72. doi: 10.1902/jop.2015.130684.

Periodontal soft tissue non-root coverage procedures: a systematic review from
the AAP regeneration workshop.

Kim DM(1), Neiva R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Medicine, Infection, and Immunity; Division of
Periodontology; Harvard School of Dental Medicine; Boston, MA.

BACKGROUND: Gingival augmentation procedures around natural teeth and dental
implants are performed to facilitate plaque control, to improve patient comfort, 
to prevent future recession, and in conjunction with restorative, orthodontic, or
prosthetic dentistry. The aim of this study is to answer the most common
questions related to this treatment modality based on the most relevant and
current knowledge in the field.
METHODS: Two reviewers worked to answer the five most common and clinically
relevant questions with supporting literature to understand the role of gingiva
around teeth. 1) What circumstances require an increased zone of keratinized
tissue (KT), or is KT important? 2) What is the ideal thickness of an autogenous 
gingival graft? Is a thick autogenous gingival graft more effective than a thin
autogenous gingival graft? 3) What are the alternatives to autogenous gingival
grafting to increase the zone of attached gingiva? 4) Does orthodontic
intervention affect soft tissue health and dimensions? 5) What is the
patient-reported patient outcome for minimal KT compared with that for an
enhanced zone of KT? An extensive literature search was performed using PubMed,
the Cochrane Oral Health Group Specialized Trials Registry (the Cochrane
Library), and the most respected journals in the field.
RESULTS: Although gingival augmentation procedures were first introduced in
1960s, there have not been in-depth comparative studies examining the five
questions that have been proposed by the authors. Lack of relevant systematic
reviews and randomized clinical trials (RCTs) on this topic do not allow authors 
to answer those questions with a strong level of evidence. However, the following
can be recommended after reviewing case reports and case series on these topics. 
1) There is enough clinical evidence to support maintaining an adequate band of
gingiva for intracrevicular margin restoration. 2) Thick grafts do not appear to 
result in better clinical outcomes than thin grafts. Thick grafts are likely to
result in more primary contraction, whereas thin grafts tend to be prone to
secondary contraction. 3) Viable alternative treatment modalities are currently
available that are capable of providing KT augmentation without the need for
palatal donor tissue. 4) Appropriately applied orthodontic forces do not cause
permanent damage to a healthy periodontium. The probability of recession during
tooth movement in thin biotype is high to justify gingival augmentation when the 
dimension of gingiva is inadequate. In addition, cases in which there will be a
facial tooth movement outside of the alveolar process need to be considered for a
gingival augmentation procedure. 5) Although the articles that have been
published on this topic did not consider patient-reported outcomes and esthetics 
as part of the overall treatment success assessment, patients who have received
alternative treatment modalities that did not depend on palatal tissue harvesting
appear to have reported more satisfaction and less discomfort after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Autogenous gingival grafts are still considered to be the "gold
standard" procedure with unmatched success rates and clinical success when
gingival augmentation procedures are required. However, tissue-engineered
materials may offer viable options to palatal tissue harvesting for gingival
augmentation. KT augmentation may prevent the development and progression of
gingival recession, especially when restorative margins may interact with the
periodontium and/or orthodontic treatment is indicated. Patient-reported outcomes
should be considered for future studies on this topic. Additional RCTs and
systematic reviews are needed to support these conclusions.

PMID: 25644300  [PubMed - in process]


323. J Periodontol. 2015 Feb;86(2 Suppl):S108-30. doi: 10.1902/jop.2015.130677.

Periodontal regeneration - furcation defects: a systematic review from the AAP
regeneration workshop.

Avila-Ortiz G(1), De Buitrago JG, Reddy MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontics, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this review is to present the available evidence regarding
the effectiveness of different regenerative approaches for the treatment of
furcation defects in specific clinical scenarios compared with conventional
surgical therapy to provide clinical guidelines for the therapeutic management of
furcation defects and to identify priorities for future research that may advance
the understanding of periodontal regenerative medicine.
METHODS: A comprehensive search based on predetermined eligibility criteria was
conducted to identify human original studies and systematic reviews on the topic 
of periodontal regeneration of furcation defects. Two reviewers independently
screened the title and abstract of the entries yielded from the initial search.
Subsequently, both reviewers read the full-text version of potentially eligible
studies, made a final article selection, and extracted the data of the selected
studies considering specific clinical scenarios. The clinical scenarios
contemplated in this review included the following: 1) facial and interproximal
Class I defects in maxillary molars; 2) facial and lingual Class I defects in
mandibular molars; 3) facial and interproximal Class II furcation defects in
maxillary molars; 4) facial and lingual Class II furcation defects in mandibular 
molars; 5) Class III furcation defects in maxillary molars; 6) Class III
furcation defects in mandibular molars; and 7) Class I, II, or III furcation
defects in maxillary premolars. Endpoints of interest included different
clinical, radiographic, microbiologic, histologic, and patient-reported outcomes.
RESULTS: The initial search yielded a total of 1,500 entries. The final selection
consisted of 150 articles, of which six were systematic reviews, 109 were
clinical trials, 27 were case series, and eight were case reports. A summary of
the main findings of previously published systematic reviews and the available
evidence relative to the indication of regenerative approaches for the treatment 
of furcation defects compared with conventional surgical therapy are presented.
Given the marked methodologic heterogeneity and the wide variety of materials and
techniques applied in the selected clinical trials, the conduction of a
meta-analysis was not viable.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of the reviewed evidence, the following conclusions can
be drawn. 1) Periodontal regeneration has been demonstrated histologically and
clinically for the treatment of maxillary facial or interproximal and mandibular 
facial or lingual Class II furcation defects. 2) Although periodontal
regeneration has been demonstrated histologically for the treatment of mandibular
Class III defects, the evidence is limited to one case report. 3) Evidence
supporting regenerative therapy in maxillary Class III furcation defects in
maxillary molars is limited to clinical case reports. 4) In Class I furcation
defects, regenerative therapy may be beneficial in certain clinical scenarios,
although most Class I furcation defects may be successfully treated with
non-regenerative therapy. 5) Future research efforts should be primarily directed
toward the conduction of clinical trials to test novel regenerative approaches
that place emphasis primarily on patient-reported outcomes and also on histologic
demonstration of periodontal regeneration. Investigators should also focus on
understanding the influence that local, systemic, and technical factors may have 
on the outcomes of regenerative therapy in furcation defects.

PMID: 25644295  [PubMed - in process]


324. J Rheumatol. 2015 Feb 1. pii: jrheum.140410. [Epub ahead of print]

Abatacept in the Treatment of Severe, Longstanding, and Refractory Uveitis
Associated with Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis.

Tappeiner C(1), Miserocchi E(1), Bodaghi B(1), Kotaniemi K(1), Mackensen F(1),
Gerloni V(1), Quartier P(1), Lutz T(1), Heiligenhaus A(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Inselspital, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland; Department of Ophthalmology, St. Franziskus Hospital, Münster, and
University Duisburg-Essen, and Department of Ophthalmology, and Department of
General Pediatrics, Centre for Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine,
Interdisciplinary Uveitis Center, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany; 
Department of Ophthalmology, University Vita-Salute, Scientific Institute San
Raffaele, and Department of Rheumatology, Pediatric Rheumatology Unit, Istituto
Ortopedico G. Pini University, Milan, Italy; Department of Ophthalmology, Hôpital
Pitié-Salpêtrière, and Paris-Descartes University, IMAGINE and Pediatric
Immunology-Hematology and Rheumatology Unit, Necker-Enfants Malades Hospital,
Paris, France; Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Hospital,
Helsinki, Finland.C. Tappeiner was supported by an unrestricted grant from the
Swiss Foundation for Grants in Biology and Medicine/Swiss National Science
Foundation and Novartis. P. Quartier is involved in clinical trials with
abatacept.C. Tappeiner, MD, Department of Ophthalmology, Inselspital, University 
of Bern, and Department of Ophthalmology, St. Franziskus Hospital, Münster; E.
Miserocchi, MD, Department of Ophthalmology, University Vita-Salute, Scientific
Institute San Raffaele; B. Bodaghi, MD, PhD, Department of Ophthalmology, Hôpital
Pitié-Salpêtrière; K. Kotaniemi, MD, PhD, Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki
University Hospital; F. Mackensen, MD, Department of Ophthalmology and
Interdisciplinary Uveitis Center, University of Heidelberg; V. Gerloni, MD,
Department of Rheumatology, Pediatric Rheumatology Unit, Istituto Ortopedico G.
Pini University;P. Quartier, MD, Paris-Descartes University, IMAGINE and
Pediatric Immunology- Hematology and Rheumatology Unit, Necker-Enfants Malades
Hospital; T. Lutz, MD, Department of General Pediatrics, Centre for Pediatric and
Adolescent Medicine and Interdisciplinary Uveitis Center, University of
Heidelberg; A. Heiligenhaus, MD, Department of Ophthalmology, St. Franziskus
Hospital, Münster, and University Duisburg-Essen. Address correspondence to Dr.
A. Heiligenhaus, Department of Ophthalmology and Ophtha Lab, St. Franziskus
Hospital, Hohenzollernring 74, 48145 Münster, Germany. E-mail:
arnd.heiligenhaus@uveitis-zentrum.de Accepted for publication December 19, 2014.

OBJECTIVE: Abatacept (ABA), a selective T cell costimulation modulator that binds
to CD80 and CD86 on antigen-presenting cells, was investigated for its
antiinflammatory effect in treating severe chronic uveitis associated with
juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA).
METHODS: Our retrospective study was conducted by members of the Multinational
Interdisciplinary Working Group for Uveitis in Childhood (MIWGUC). Patients with 
JIA who are receiving ABA treatment for active uveitis were included. In all
patients, uveitis had been refractory to previous topical and systemic
corticosteroids, immunosuppressives, and at least 1 tumor necrosis factor-α
inhibitor. A standardized protocol was used to document uveitis (MIWGUC) and
arthritis. Baseline visit and visits at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months before and after
ABA start were evaluated. Primary outcome measure was defined as achievement of
uveitis inactivity; secondary outcome measures were tapering of corticosteroid
and/or immunosuppressive treatment, and occurrence of complications.
RESULTS: In all, 21 patients (16 female) with active uveitis (n = 21) and
arthritis (n = 18) were included (mean age 11.8 ± 3.6 yrs). In 7 of 18 patients
with active arthritis at baseline, inactivity was achieved following ABA
treatment. Uveitis inactivity was achieved in 11 patients, but recurred later in 
8 of them, and remained active in another 10 cases. Systemic corticosteroids or
immunosuppression were tapered in 3 patients, but uveitis recurred in all of them
during further followup. Ocular complications secondary to uveitis were present
in 17 patients at baseline, while 3 patients developed new ocular complications
during followup.
CONCLUSION: A sustained response to ABA was uncommon in patients with severe and 
refractory uveitis.

PMID: 25641892  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


325. J Thorac Oncol. 2015 Feb;10(2):237-49. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000412.

Perspectives of Novel Imaging Techniques for Staging, Therapy Response
Assessment, and Monitoring of Surveillance in Lung Cancer: Summary of the Dresden
2013 Post WCLC-IASLC State-of-the-Art Imaging Workshop.

Henzler T(1), Goldstraw P, Wenz F, Pirker R, Weder W, Apfaltrer P, Meyer M,
Buesing K, Crino L, Fennell D, Fink C, Grunenwald D, Manegold C, Pilz L,
Schoenberg SO, Suresh S, Vansteenkiste J, Voigt W, Wängler B, Schmid-Bindert G.

Author information: 
(1)*Institute of Clinical Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, University Medical
Center Mannheim, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim,
Germany; †Division of Thoracic Surgery, Royal Brompton Hospital, Imperial College
London, London, United Kingdom; ‡Department of Radiation Oncology, University
Medical Center Mannheim, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University,
Mannheim, Germany; §Department of Medicine I, Medical University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria; ║Division of Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital of Zurich,
Zurich, Switzerland; ¶Medical Oncology Division, Department of Oncology,
University Hospital Perugia, Perugia, Italy; #Lung Cancer Research, University of
Leicester & Leicester University Hospitals, Leicester, United Kingdom;
**Department of Radiology, General Hospital Celle, Celle, Germany; ††Department
of Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Hôpital Tenon, University of Paris VI, Paris,
France; ‡‡Department of Surgery/Thoracic Oncology, University Medical Centre
Mannheim, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany;
§§Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany;
║║Department of Radiation Oncology, VU University Medical Center Amsterdam,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; ¶¶Department of Pneumology, Respiratory Oncology Unit
and Trial Unit, University Hospital KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; ##Clinical
Competence Center Oncology, Siemens AG, Erlangen, Germany; ***Institute of
Clinical Radiology and Nuclear Medicine/Department of Molecular Imaging &
Radiopharmacy, University Medical Centre Mannheim, Medical Faculty Mannheim,
Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany; †††Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Elm &
Carlton Streets, Buffalo, NY 14263.

Modern imaging techniques that can provide functional information on tumor
vascularization, metabolic activity, or cellularity have seen significant
improvements over the past decade. However, most of these techniques are
currently not broadly utilized neither in clinical trials nor in clinical
routine, although there is a large agreement on the fact that conventional
approaches for therapy response assessment such as Response Evaluation Criteria
in Solid Tumors or World Health Organization criteria-that exclusively focus on
the change in tumor size-are of less value for response assessment in modern
thoracic oncology. The aim of this article comprises two parts: a short review of
the most promising state-of-the-art imaging techniques that have the potential to
play a larger role in thoracic oncology within the near future followed by a
meeting report including recommendations of an interdisciplinary expert panel
that discussed the potential of the different techniques during the Dresden 2013 
Post World Congress of Lung Cancer (WCLC) - International Association for the
Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC) meeting. It is intended to provide a comprehensive
summary about ongoing trends and future perspectives on functional imaging in
thoracic oncology.

PMID: 25611226  [PubMed - in process]


326. Kidney Int. 2015 Feb;87(2):268-70. doi: 10.1038/ki.2014.320.

Urea for hyponatremia?

Sterns RH(1), Silver SM(1), Hix JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Medicine, Rochester General Hospital, Rochester, New York,
USA [2] Department of Nephrology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Rochester, New York, USA.

Once the standard of care for cerebral edema, urea can also be used to treat
hyponatremia. The 2014 European Clinical Practice Guidelines recommend urea for
the treatment of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone, while
discouraging use of vasopressin antagonists. Although there is evidence that urea
can diminish hypertonic injury to brain cells caused by rapid correction of
hyponatremia, clinical trials are needed that include patients at high risk to
develop complications from overcorrection.

PMID: 25635717  [PubMed - in process]


327. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Feb;16(2):e84-e92. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70410-3.

Regenerative medicine for oesophageal reconstruction after cancer treatment.

Chian KS(1), Leong MF(2), Kono K(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore, Singapore. Electronic address: askschian@ntu.edu.sg.
(2)Department of Cell and Tissue Engineering, Institute of Bioengineering and
Nanotechnology, Singapore, Singapore. (3)Department of Surgery, National
University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; Cancer Science Institute of
Singapore, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; Department of 
Organ Regulatory Surgery and Advanced Cancer Immunotherapy, Fukushima Medical
University, Fukushima, Japan.

Removal of malignant tissue in patients with oesophageal cancer and replacement
with autologous grafts from the stomach and colon can lead to problems. The need 
to reduce stenosis and anastomotic leakage after oesophagectomy is a high
priority. Developments in tissue-engineering methods and cell-sheet technology
have improved scaffold materials for oesophageal repair. Despite the many
successful animal studies, few tissue-engineering approaches have progressed to
clinical trials. In this Review, we discuss the status of oesophagus
reconstruction after surgery. In particular, we highlight two clinical trials
that used decellularised constructs and epithelial cell sheets to replace excised
tissues after endoscopic submucosal dissection or mucosal resection procedures.
Results from the trials showed that both decellularised grafts and
epithelial-cell sheets prevented stenosis. By contrast, animal studies have shown
that the use of tissue-engineered constructs after oesophagectomy remains a
challenge.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25638684  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


328. Mayo Clin Proc. 2015 Feb;90(2):284-299. doi: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2014.09.008.

Epidemiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Neck Pain.

Cohen SP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, MD; Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD; Department of Anesthesiology,
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD; Department of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Uniformed Services University of the Health
Sciences, Bethesda, MD. Electronic address: scohen40@jhmi.edu.

Neck pain is the fourth leading cause of disability, with an annual prevalence
rate exceeding 30%. Most episodes of acute neck pain will resolve with or without
treatment, but nearly 50% of individuals will continue to experience some degree 
of pain or frequent occurrences. History and physical examination can provide
important clues as to whether the pain is neuropathic or mechanical and can also 
be used to identify "red flags" that may signify serious pathology, such as
myelopathy, atlantoaxial subluxation, and metastases. Magnetic resonance imaging 
is characterized by a high prevalence of abnormal findings in asymptomatic
individuals but should be considered for cases involving focal neurologic
symptoms, pain refractory to conventional treatment, and when referring a patient
for interventional treatment. Few clinical trials have evaluated treatments for
neck pain. Exercise treatment appears to be beneficial in patients with neck
pain. There is some evidence to support muscle relaxants in acute neck pain
associated with muscle spasm, conflicting evidence for epidural corticosteroid
injections for radiculopathy, and weak positive evidence for cervical facet joint
radiofrequency denervation. In patients with radiculopathy or myelopathy, surgery
appears to be more effective than nonsurgical therapy in the short term but not
in the long term for most people.

Copyright © 2015 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25659245  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


329. Menopause. 2015 Feb;22(2):131-5. doi: 10.1097/GME.0000000000000408.

Adult mesenchymal stem cells and women's health.

Caplan AI(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Skeletal Research Center, Department of Biology, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, OH.

Adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were previously described as multipotent
cells that could differentiate into bone, cartilage, muscle, and other
mesenchymal tissues. New information suggests that MSCs can be found in every
tissue of the body because they function as perivascular cells-pericytes-found
outside all blood vessels. When these vessels break or are inflamed, pericytes
are detached and form MSCs, which are activated by their local microenvironment
of injury. Such MSCs function to secrete powerful immune-modulatory and
regenerative agents; more than 450 clinical trials are now ongoing, covering a
huge spectrum of clinical conditions. How such activated MSCs affect menstrual
cycle, menopause, or osteotrophic cancers has only recently been studied. This
article outlines these issues and challenges the scientific and medical community
to use this newfound knowledge to uncover new clinical logics and medial
solutions for women.

PMCID: PMC4308553 [Available on 2016-02-01]
PMID: 25608271  [PubMed - in process]


330. Mil Med. 2015 Feb;180(2):132-6. doi: 10.7205/MILMED-D-14-00195.

Clinical indications for acupuncture in chronic post-traumatic headache
management.

Khusid MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Deployment Health Clinical Center, 8601 Georgia Avenue, 4th Floor, Silver
Spring, MD 20910.

Chronic post-traumatic headache (PTH) is one of the most common complaints after 
mild traumatic brain injury, yet evidence to date is insufficient to direct
conventional treatment of headaches with this etiology. Therefore, the current
guidelines recommend a symptomatic approach for the three patterns of PTHs:
migraine-like, tension-like, and mixed symptomatology. To improve response rates 
and minimize the potential for polypharmacy, adverse effects, and risk of
dependency, effective nonpharmacologic options should be employed to support
faster and safer patient rehabilitation. Current evidence shows that acupuncture 
is at least as effective as drug therapy for migraine prophylaxis and
neurovascular and tension-type headaches. Because of its safety,
cost-effectiveness, and long-lasting benefits, adjunctive acupuncture should be
offered to patients with chronic PTHs and may be a valuable primary treatment
alternative for those with contraindications to pharmacotherapy. Future
head-to-head, adequately powered, well-controlled randomized clinical trials are 
needed to investigate acupuncture efficacy for PTHs.

Reprint & Copyright © 2015 Association of Military Surgeons of the U.S.

PMID: 25643378  [PubMed - in process]


331. Mov Disord. 2015 Feb;30(2):150-9. doi: 10.1002/mds.26099. Epub 2015 Jan 21.

Management of impulse control disorders in Parkinson's disease: Controversies and
future approaches.

Samuel M(1), Rodriguez-Oroz M, Antonini A, Brotchie JM, Ray Chaudhuri K, Brown
RG, Galpern WR, Nirenberg MJ, Okun MS, Lang AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, National Parkinson Foundation International Centre of
Excellence, King's College Hospital, King's Health Partners, London, UK.

Impulse control disorders in Parkinson's disease are a group of impulsive
behaviors most often associated with dopaminergic treatment. Presently, there is 
a lack of high quality evidence available to guide their management. This
manuscript reviews current management strategies, before concentrating on the
concept of dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome and its implications for the
management of impulse control disorders. Further, we focus on controversies,
including the role of more recently available anti-parkinsonian drugs, and
potential future approaches involving routes of drug delivery, nonpharmacological
treatments (such as cognitive behavioral therapy and deep brain stimulation), and
other as yet experimental strategies. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement
Disorder Society.

© 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

PMID: 25607799  [PubMed - in process]


332. Nat Med. 2015 Feb;21(2):178-84. doi: 10.1038/nm.3788. Epub 2015 Jan 19.

Isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 mutations induce BCL-2 dependence in acute
myeloid leukemia.

Chan SM(1), Thomas D(2), Corces-Zimmerman MR(2), Xavy S(2), Rastogi S(2), Hong
WJ(1), Zhao F(2), Medeiros BC(3), Tyvoll DA(4), Majeti R(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California, USA. [2] Stanford Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative
Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.
(2)Stanford Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA. (3)Department of
Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.

Mutant isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) 1 and 2 proteins alter the epigenetic
landscape in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells through production of the
oncometabolite (R)-2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG). Here we performed a large-scale RNA
interference (RNAi) screen to identify genes that are synthetic lethal to the
IDH1(R132H) mutation in AML and identified the anti-apoptotic gene BCL-2. IDH1-
and IDH2-mutant primary human AML cells were more sensitive than IDH1/2 wild-type
cells to ABT-199, a highly specific BCL-2 inhibitor that is currently in clinical
trials for hematologic malignancies, both ex vivo and in xenotransplant models.
This sensitization effect was induced by (R)-2-HG-mediated inhibition of the
activity of cytochrome c oxidase (COX) in the mitochondrial electron transport
chain (ETC); suppression of COX activity lowered the mitochondrial threshold to
trigger apoptosis upon BCL-2 inhibition. Our findings indicate that IDH1/2
mutation status may identify patients that are likely to respond to pharmacologic
BCL-2 inhibition and form the rational basis for combining agents that disrupt
ETC activity with ABT-199 in future clinical studies.

PMID: 25599133  [PubMed - in process]


333. Neurosurg Focus. 2015 Feb;38(2):E16. doi: 10.3171/2014.11.FOCUS14703.

Update on the management of recurrent Cushing's disease.

Rutkowski MJ(1), Flanigan PM, Aghi MK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, and.

After transsphenoidal surgery, Cushing's disease (CD) shows excellent long-term
remission rates, but it may recur and pose a therapeutic challenge. Findings in
recent published reports on the treatment of recurrent adrenocorticotropic
hormone (ACTH)-secreting tumors suggest that repeat resection, radiation-based
therapies such as Gamma Knife surgery and proton-beam radiosurgery,
pharmacotherapy, and bilateral adrenalectomy all have important roles in the
treatment of recurrent CD. Each of these interventions has inherent risks and
benefits that should be presented to the patient during counseling on retreatment
options. Radiation-based therapies increasingly appear to have efficacies similar
to those of repeat resection in achieving biochemical remission and tumor
control. In addition, an expanding retinue of medication-based therapies, several
of which are currently being evaluated in clinical trials, has shown some promise
as tertiary adjunctive therapies. Lastly, bilateral adrenalectomy may offer
durable control of refractory recurrent CD. An increasing number of published
studies with long-term patient outcomes highlight the evolving treatment patterns
in the management of recurrent CD.

PMID: 25639318  [PubMed - in process]


334. Neurosurg Focus. 2015 Feb;38(2):E11. doi: 10.3171/2014.10.FOCUS14700.

Cushing's disease: current medical therapies and molecular insights guiding
future therapies.

Lau D(1), Rutledge C, Aghi MK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco,
California.

OBJECT Cushing's disease (CD) can lead to significant morbidity secondary to
hormonal sequelae or mass effect from the pituitary tumor. A transsphenoidal
approach to resection of the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-secreting
pituitary adenoma is the first-line treatment. However, in the setting in which
patients are unable to undergo surgery, have acute hypercortisolism, or have
recurrent disease, medical therapy can play an important role. The authors
performed a systematic review to highlight the efficacy of medical treatment of
CD and discuss novel molecular insights that could guide the development of
future medical treatments of CD. METHODS A search on current medical therapies
for CD was performed. After individual medical therapeutic agents for CD were
identified, each agent underwent a formal systematic search. The phrase "(name of
agent) and Cushing's" was used as a search term in PubMed for all years up to
2014. The abstract of each article was reviewed for studies that evaluated the
efficacy of medical treatment of CD. Only studies that enrolled at least 20
patients were included in the review. RESULTS A total of 11 articles on 6
individual agents were included in this review. Specific medical therapies were
categorized based on the level of action: pituitary directed (cabergoline and
pasireotide), adrenal/steroidogenesis directed (ketoconazole, metyrapone, and
mitotane), and end-tissue directed/cortisol receptors (mifepristone). The studies
identified consisted of a mix of retrospective reviews and small clinical trials.
Only pasireotide and mifepristone have undergone Phase III clinical trials, from 
which they garnered FDA approval for the treatment of patients with CD. Overall, 
agents targeting ACTH secretion and steroidogenesis were found to be quite
effective in reducing urine free cortisol (UFC) to levels near normal. A
significant reduction in UFC was observed in 45%-100% of patients and a majority 
of patients gained clinical improvement. Similarly, inhibition at the end-tissue 
level led to clinical improvement in 87% of patients. However, side-effect rates 
associated with these drugs are high (up to 88%). Ketoconazole has been shown to 
enhance tumor appearance on MRI to facilitate pituitary resection. Promising
molecular targets have been identified, including epidermal growth factor
receptor, retinoic acid receptors, and cyclin dependent kinases. These pathways
have been linked to the regulation of pro-opiomelanocortin expression, ACTH
secretion, and tumor growth. CONCLUSIONS Despite encouraging Phase III clinical
trials leading to FDA approval of 2 agents for treatment of patients with CD, no 
agent has yet produced results comparable to resection. As a result, the
molecular insights gained into CD pathogenesis will need to continue to be
expanded until they can lead to the development of medical therapies for CD with 
a favorable side-effect profile and efficacy comparable to resection. Ideally
these agents should also reduce tumor size, which could potentially permit their 
eventual discontinuation.

PMID: 25639313  [PubMed - in process]


335. Oncol Lett. 2015 Feb;9(2):626-628. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Extraskeletal Ewing's sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the mediastinum:
Significant response to chemoradiotherapy.

Liu M(1), Liu B(1), Dong L(1), Han T(1), Zhang L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The First Hospital, Jilin University,
Changchun, Jilin 130021, P.R. China. (2)Department of Radiology, The First
Hospital, Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130021, P.R. China.

Primary mediastinal extraskeletal Ewing's sarcoma (EES) is quite rare. To the
best of our knowledge, only five cases have been reported. Given the paucity of
data, there is consequently no optimal treatment strategy available. The current 
study presents the case of a 51-year-old female with unresectable EES of the
posterior mediastinum. Chemoradiotherapy achieved near complete remission without
severe side-effects. The literature associated with EES is also reviewed. The
present case highlights the possibility of the diagnosis of EES for a mediastinal
mass. Chemoradiotherapy may be a good option for unresectable cases. In the
future, large-scale collaborative clinical trials should be initiated to provide 
an improved understanding of the characteristics of EES and the best treatment
strategy.

PMCID: PMC4301504
PMID: 25621030  [PubMed]


336. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2015 Feb;101(1):39-44. doi:
10.1016/j.otsr.2014.10.015. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Effectiveness and safety of the posterior approach with soft tissue repair for
primary total hip arthroplasty: A meta-analysis.

Zhang D(1), Chen L(1), Peng K(1), Xing F(1), Wang H(1), Xiang Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, No. 37
Guoxue Xiang, Chengdu 610041, Sichuan, China. (2)Department of Orthopaedics, West
China Hospital, Sichuan University, No. 37 Guoxue Xiang, Chengdu 610041, Sichuan,
China. Electronic address: Xiangzhou15@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Repair of soft tissue in favour of the posterior approach for total
hip arthroplasty is still under discussion and few studies are assessing this
issue. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to compare the effectiveness and
safety of the posterior approach for total hip arthroplasty with and without soft
tissue repair. We focused on these questions as follows: does primary posterior
approach for total hip arthroplasty with soft tissue repair has better result
regarding dislocation rate, Harris hip score and the sciatic nerve palsy rate
compared with posterior approach without soft tissue repair.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted electronic literature searches using CENTRAL
(Issue 1 of 12, Jan 2014), PUBMED (1980 to Jan 2014), and EMBASE (1980 to Jan
2014). Clinical studies evaluating the posterior approach for total hip
arthroplasty with and without soft tissue repair were collected. After
independent study selection by 2 authors, data were collected and extracted
independently. The methodological quality of the studies was assessed by the
Cochrane Collaboration's tool for assessing risk of bias and the Newcastle-Ottawa
Scale.
RESULT: Seven clinical trials with 4594 hips using the posterior approach for
total hip arthroplasty were included. The pooled data indicated a lower rate of
dislocation (OR: 0.14, 95% CI: 0.08-0.26, P<0.00001) and higher Harris hip score 
(1.75, 95% CI: 1.19 to 2.32, P<0.00001, I(2)=26%) after the posterior approach to
total hip arthroplasty using soft tissue repair than without using soft tissue
repair. There was no statistical difference in sciatic nerve palsy between the
use of soft tissue repair and without it in posterior approach to total hip
arthroplasty (OR: 5.34, 95% CI: 0.25-112.25, P=0.28).
DISCUSSION: Our meta-analysis included data from more studies than were
previously available and demonstrated that the use of soft tissue repair and
without it in posterior approach to total hip arthroplasty are similar in safety.
Using repair resulted in a lower dislocation rate and higher Harris hip score
than without repair.
LEVELS OF EVIDENCE: Level 2 meta-analysis of low-powered prospective randomised
trial.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620028  [PubMed - in process]


337. Pediatrics. 2015 Feb;135(2):e457-64. doi: 10.1542/peds.2014-1692.

Sustained lung inflation at birth for preterm infants: a randomized clinical
trial.

Lista G(1), Boni L(2), Scopesi F(3), Mosca F(4), Trevisanuto D(5), Messner H(6), 
Vento G(7), Magaldi R(8), Del Vecchio A(9), Agosti M(10), Gizzi C(11), Sandri
F(12), Biban P(13), Bellettato M(14), Gazzolo D(15), Boldrini A(16), Dani C(17); 
SLI Trial Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neonatology, "V. Buzzi" Children's Hospital, ICP, Milan, Italy;
(2)Clinical Trials Coordinating Center, Istituto Toscano Tumori, Florence,
Department of Human Pathology and Oncology, University of Florence, Florence,
Italy; (3)Neonatal ICU (NICU), Istituto G. Gaslini, Genoa, Italy; (4)Neonatal
ICU, Department of Mother and Infant Science, Fondazione IRCCS ''Ca' Granda''
Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, University of Milan, Milan, Italy; (5)Department
of Pediatrics, Padua, Italy; (6)Neonatal ICU of Ospedale Regionale, Bolzano,
Italy; (7)Division of Neonatology, Catholic University of Rome, Italy;
(8)Division of Neonatology, Neonatal ICU, Ospedali Riuniti, Azienda
Ospedaliero-Universitaria, Foggia, Italy; (9)Division of Neonatology, Neonatal
ICU, Di Venere Hospital, Bari, Italy; (10)Maternal and Child Health Department,
Del Ponte Hospital, A.O. Di Circolo Fondazione Macchi, Varese, Italy;
(11)Division of Neonatology, S. Giovanni Calibita Hospital Fatebenefratelli,
Isola Tiberina, Rome, Italy; (12)Maternal and Pediatrics Department, Maggiore
Hospital, Bologna, Italy; (13)Department of Pediatrics, Pediatric and Neonatal
ICU, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata, Verona, Italy; (14)Division of 
Neonatology, Ospedale San Bortolo, Vicenza, Italy; (15)Department of Maternal
Fetal and Neonatal Medicine, C. Arrigo Children's Hospital, Alessandria, Italy;
(16)Division of Neonatology and Neonatal ICU, S. Chiara Hospital, University of
Pisa, Pisa, Italy; and. (17)Department of Neurosciences, Psychology, Drug
Research and Child Health, Careggi University Hospital of Florence, Florence,
Italy cdani@unifi.it.

BACKGROUND: Studies suggest that giving newly born preterm infants sustained lung
inflation (SLI) may decrease their need for mechanical ventilation (MV) and
improve their respiratory outcomes.
METHODS: We randomly assigned infants born at 25 weeks 0 days to 28 weeks 6 days 
of gestation to receive SLI (25 cm H2O for 15 seconds) followed by nasal
continuous positive airway pressure (nCPAP) or nCPAP alone in the delivery room. 
SLI and nCPAP were delivered by using a neonatal mask and a T-piece ventilator.
The primary end point was the need for MV in the first 72 hours of life. The
secondary end points included the need for respiratory supports and survival
without bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD).
RESULTS: A total of 148 infants were enrolled in the SLI group and 143 in the
control group. Significantly fewer infants were ventilated in the first 72 hours 
of life in the SLI group (79 of 148 [53%]) than in the control group (93 of 143
[65%]); unadjusted odds ratio: 0.62 [95% confidence interval: 0.38-0.99]; P =
.04). The need for respiratory support and survival without BPD did not differ
between the groups. Pneumothorax occurred in 1% (n = 2) of infants in the control
group compared with 6% (n = 9) in the SLI group, with an unadjusted odds ratio of
4.57 (95% confidence interval: 0.97-21.50; P = .06).
CONCLUSIONS: SLI followed by nCPAP in the delivery room decreased the need for MV
in the first 72 hours of life in preterm infants at high risk of respiratory
distress syndrome compared with nCPAP alone but did not decrease the need for
respiratory support and the occurrence of BPD.

Copyright © 2015 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

PMID: 25624390  [PubMed - in process]


338. Pediatrics. 2015 Feb;135(2):e348-56. doi: 10.1542/peds.2014-1641.

Intranasal triamcinolone and growth velocity.

Skoner DP(1), Berger WE(2), Gawchik SM(3), Akbary A(4), Qiu C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Allegheny General Hospital, Allegheny Health Network, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania; Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
dskoner@wpahs.org. (2)Division of Basic and Clinical Immunology, Department of
Medicine, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, California; (3)Department of 
Pediatrics, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Asthma and
Allergy Associates, Upland, Pennsylvania; and. (4)Medical Affairs and.
(5)Clinical and Science Operation Departments, Sanofi US, Bridgewater, New
Jersey.

BACKGROUND: Inadequate designs and conflicting results from previous studies
prompted the US Food and Drug Administration to publish guidelines for the design
of clinical trials evaluating the effects of orally inhaled and intranasal
corticosteroids on the growth of children. This study conformed to these
guidelines to evaluate the effect of triamcinolone acetonide aqueous nasal spray 
(TAA-AQ) on the growth of children with perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR).
METHODS: This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group,
multicenter study evaluated the effect of once-daily TAA-AQ (110 μg) on the
growth velocity (GV) of children aged 3-9 years with PAR by using stadiometry at 
baseline (4-6 months), during treatment (12 months), and at follow-up (2 months).
Hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function was assessed by measuring
urinary cortisol levels. Details of adverse events were recorded.
RESULTS: Of 1078 subjects screened, 299 were randomized, and 216 completed the
study (placebo, 107; TAA-AQ, 109). In the primary analysis (modified
intent-to-treat: placebo, 133; TAA-AQ, 134), least-squares mean GV during
treatment was lower in the TAA-AQ group (5.65 cm/year) versus placebo (6.09
cm/year). The difference (-0.45 cm/year; 95% confidence interval: -0.78 to -0.11;
P = .01), although clinically nonsignificant, was evident within 2 months of
treatment and stabilized thereafter. At follow-up, the GV approached baseline
(6.70 cm/year) in the TAA-AQ group (6.59 cm/year) and decreased slightly in the
placebo group (5.89 cm/year vs 6.06 cm/year at baseline). No HPA axis suppression
was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: By using rigorous Food and Drug Administration-recommended design
elements, this study detected a small, statistically significant effect of TAA-AQ
on the GV of children with PAR.

Copyright © 2015 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

PMID: 25624374  [PubMed - in process]


339. PLoS Genet. 2015 Feb 2;11(2):e1004914. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004914.
eCollection 2015.

Structured Observations Reveal Slow HIV-1 CTL Escape.

Roberts HE(1), Hurst J(2), Robinson N(3), Brown H(3), Flanagan P(1), Vass L(1),
Fidler S(4), Weber J(4), Babiker A(5), Phillips RE(6), McLean AR(7), Frater J(6);
SPARTAC trial investigators.

Author information: 
(1)The Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, Nuffield Department of
Clinical Medicine, Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom. (2)The Peter
Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine,
Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom; The Institute for Emerging Infections,
The Oxford Martin School, Oxford, Oxford United Kingdom. (3)The Peter Medawar
Building for Pathogen Research, Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, Oxford 
University, Oxford, United Kingdom; Oxford NIHR Comprehensive Biomedical Research
Centre, Oxford, United Kingdom. (4)Division of Medicine, Wright Fleming
Institute, Imperial College, London, United Kingdom. (5)Medical Research Council 
Clinical Trials Unit, London, United Kingdom. (6)The Peter Medawar Building for
Pathogen Research, Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, Oxford University,
Oxford, United Kingdom; The Institute for Emerging Infections, The Oxford Martin 
School, Oxford, Oxford United Kingdom; Oxford NIHR Comprehensive Biomedical
Research Centre, Oxford, United Kingdom. (7)The Institute for Emerging
Infections, The Oxford Martin School, Oxford, Oxford United Kingdom; Department
of Zoology, Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom.

The existence of viral variants that escape from the selection pressures imposed 
by cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) in HIV-1 infection is well documented, but it
is unclear when they arise, with reported measures of the time to escape in
individuals ranging from days to years. A study of participants enrolled in the
SPARTAC (Short Pulse Anti-Retroviral Therapy at HIV Seroconversion) clinical
trial allowed direct observation of the evolution of CTL escape variants in 125
adults with primary HIV-1 infection observed for up to three years. Patient
HLA-type, longitudinal CD8+ T-cell responses measured by IFN-γ ELISpot and
longitudinal HIV-1 gag, pol, and nef sequence data were used to study the timing 
and prevalence of CTL escape in the participants whilst untreated. Results showed
that sequence variation within CTL epitopes at the first time point (within six
months of the estimated date of seroconversion) was consistent with most
mutations being transmitted in the infecting viral strain rather than with escape
arising within the first few weeks of infection. Escape arose throughout the
first three years of infection, but slowly and steadily. Approximately one third 
of patients did not drive any new escape in an HLA-restricted epitope in just
under two years. Patients driving several escape mutations during these two years
were rare and the median and modal numbers of new escape events in each patient
were one and zero respectively. Survival analysis of time to escape found that
possession of a protective HLA type significantly reduced time to first escape in
a patient (p = 0.01), and epitopes escaped faster in the face of a measurable
CD8+ ELISpot response (p = 0.001). However, even in an HLA matched host who
mounted a measurable, specific, CD8+ response the average time before the
targeted epitope evolved an escape mutation was longer than two years.

PMID: 25642847  [PubMed - in process]


340. PLoS Med. 2015 Feb 10;12(2):e1001786. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001786.
eCollection 2015.

Intra-tumor Genetic Heterogeneity and Mortality in Head and Neck Cancer: Analysis
of Data from The Cancer Genome Atlas.

Mroz EA(1), Tward AM(2), Hammon RJ(3), Ren Y(3), Rocco JW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cancer Research and Division of Surgical Oncology, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America. (2)Department 
of Otology and Laryngology, Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts Eye and Ear 
Infirmary, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America; The Broad Institute
of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(3)Department of Otology and Laryngology, Harvard Medical School and
Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of
America. (4)Center for Cancer Research and Division of Surgical Oncology,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America; 
Department of Otology and Laryngology, Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts
Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America;
Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Although the involvement of intra-tumor genetic heterogeneity in
tumor progression, treatment resistance, and metastasis is established, genetic
heterogeneity is seldom examined in clinical trials or practice. Many studies of 
heterogeneity have had prespecified markers for tumor subpopulations, limiting
their generalizability, or have involved massive efforts such as separate
analysis of hundreds of individual cells, limiting their clinical use. We
recently developed a general measure of intra-tumor genetic heterogeneity based
on whole-exome sequencing (WES) of bulk tumor DNA, called mutant-allele tumor
heterogeneity (MATH). Here, we examine data collected as part of a large,
multi-institutional study to validate this measure and determine whether
intra-tumor heterogeneity is itself related to mortality.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Clinical and WES data were obtained from The Cancer Genome 
Atlas in October 2013 for 305 patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma
(HNSCC), from 14 institutions. Initial pathologic diagnoses were between 1992 and
2011 (median, 2008). Median time to death for 131 deceased patients was 14 mo;
median follow-up of living patients was 22 mo. Tumor MATH values were calculated 
from WES results. Despite the multiple head and neck tumor subsites and the
variety of treatments, we found in this retrospective analysis a substantial
relation of high MATH values to decreased overall survival (Cox proportional
hazards analysis: hazard ratio for high/low heterogeneity, 2.2; 95% CI 1.4 to
3.3). This relation of intra-tumor heterogeneity to survival was not due to
intra-tumor heterogeneity's associations with other clinical or molecular
characteristics, including age, human papillomavirus status, tumor grade and TP53
mutation, and N classification. MATH improved prognostication over that provided 
by traditional clinical and molecular characteristics, maintained a significant
relation to survival in multivariate analyses, and distinguished outcomes among
patients having oral-cavity or laryngeal cancers even when standard disease
staging was taken into account. Prospective studies, however, will be required
before MATH can be used prognostically in clinical trials or practice. Such
studies will need to examine homogeneously treated HNSCC at specific head and
neck subsites, and determine the influence of cancer therapy on MATH values.
Analysis of MATH and outcome in human-papillomavirus-positive oropharyngeal
squamous cell carcinoma is particularly needed.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge this study is the first to combine data from
hundreds of patients, treated at multiple institutions, to document a relation
between intra-tumor heterogeneity and overall survival in any type of cancer. We 
suggest applying the simply calculated MATH metric of heterogeneity to
prospective studies of HNSCC and other tumor types.

PMID: 25668320  [PubMed - in process]


341. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2015 Feb 1;104(4):187-95. doi: 10.1024/1661-8157/a001925.

Aktuelles zur Niereninsuffizienz bei Diabetikern.

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Lindenmeyer M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Nephrologie, Universitätsspital Zürich und Institut für
Physiologie, Universität Zürich.

Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) has become the leading cause of end-stage renal
disease. Recent studies demonstrate that in a significant part of diabetic
patients the renal insufficiency is frequently caused by non-diabetic kidney
diseases, so that an effective clarification of untypical clinical courses is
mandatory. Important cornerstones of DKD therapy are an optimized glycaemic
management as well as a good blood pressure control. Although the prognosis of
DKD has been improved in the last years, it is, even with novel therapy
approaches, not possible to prevent the development of DKD. It remains to hope
that with extended knowledge, intensified preclinical studies and well-defined
clinical trials novel nephroprotective therapies become available in the next
years.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher. Publisher: Abstract available
from the publisher.
PMID: 25669223  [PubMed - in process]


342. Retina. 2015 Feb;35(2):165-75. doi: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000000447.

CLINICAL MANAGEMENT OF PROLIFERATIVE VITREORETINOPATHY: An Update.

Khan MA(1), Brady CJ, Kaiser RS.

Author information: 
(1)*Retina Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; †Mid Atlantic
Retina, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and ‡Wilmer Eye
Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

BACKGROUND: Proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) remains the most significant
obstacle to successful retinal reattachment surgery. Preclinical studies continue
to add insights into the complex molecular events leading to PVR development,
helping to identify new targets for potential prophylactic or therapeutic agents.
This article reviews the recent evidence supporting surgical and medical
treatments for PVR.
METHODS: PUBMED was used for literature search. Clinical studies regarding
surgical management of PVR from January 1, 2000 to August 1, 2014 were included. 
Clinical studies regarding medical management of PVR from January 1, 2000 to
August 1, 2014 were included if the design of study was a randomized controlled
trial.
RESULTS: Many recent studies have evaluated surgical and medical strategies for
the treatment and prevention of PVR. Newer vitreoretinal surgery technology (23- 
and 25-gauge vitrectomy) and tamponade agents (heavy silicone oils) have been
studied. Medical therapies evaluated include antiinflammatory agents, low
molecular weight heparin, 5-fluorouracil, 13-cis-retinoic acid, and daunorubicin,
amongst others.
CONCLUSION: Surgical management with pars plana vitrectomy, with or without
scleral buckle or inferior retinectomy, remains an effective treatment for
PVR-related detachments. Consensus regarding a preferred surgical strategy
remains controversial. Many medical therapies have been studied but fail to
demonstrate a statistically significant benefit in clinical trials. Further
studies to clarify the efficacy of available and novel treatment options are
warranted.

PMID: 25602631  [PubMed - in process]


343. Rheumatol Int. 2015 Feb 1. [Epub ahead of print]

Dose modifications of anti-TNF drugs in rheumatoid arthritis patients under
real-world settings: a systematic review.

Ferriols-Lisart R(1), Ferriols-Lisart F.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacy Service, Clinic University Hospital, Avda Blasco Ibáñez, 17, 46010,
Valencia, Spain, ferriols.raf@gmail.com.

Anti-TNF dose modifications in rheumatoid arthritis have implications on
healthcare resource utilization. The objective was to systematically review the
dose modifications, both escalations and reductions, of currently available
anti-TNF drugs (adalimumab, certolizumab, etanercept, golimumab and infliximab)
in the real-world setting. We performed a systematic literature search of
MEDLINE, ISI Web of Science, EMBASE, Indice Médico Español databases and American
College of Rheumatology and European League Against Rheumatism annual congresses 
databases. PRISMA and MOOSE guidelines were followed. Only observational studies 
were included. Clinical trials were excluded since they do not reflect routine
clinical practice. Dose escalations and reductions of the anti-TNF drug and their
magnitude were collected. Thirty-four studies fulfill the inclusion criteria.
Etanercept was associated with the lower percentage of patients under dose
escalation (4.5 %; range 0-22 %), both in naïve (4.9 %) and non-naïve patients
(1.3 %). Adalimumab and infliximab were associated with significantly higher
percentages. Dose modification magnitude in those patients compared to basal dose
was significantly different between treatments; 7.1 % (95 % CI 6.3-7.9 %) in
etanercept, 30.4 % (95 % CI 28.3-32.5 %) in adalimumab and 21 % (95 % CI
20.3-21.7 %) in infliximab. Adalimumab and infliximab were associated with a
higher risk of dose escalation relative to etanercept. There were no significant 
differences in the dose reduction percentages for the whole group of patients
between treatments. In rheumatoid arthritis, etanercept is associated with a
significantly lower percentage of dose-escalated patients and a lower magnitude
of dose modification. Significant differences in the dose reduction between
anti-TNF drugs evaluated were not observed.

PMID: 25638015  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


344. Sao Paulo Med J. 2015 Feb;133(1):68. doi: 10.1590/1516-3180.20151331T2. Epub 2015
Jan 1.

Multifocal versus monofocal intraocular lenses after cataract extraction.

Calladine D, Evans JR, Shah S, Leyland M.

BACKGROUND: Good unaided distance visual acuity is now a realistic expectation
following cataract surgery and intraocular lens (IOL) implantation. Near vision, 
however, still requires additional refractive power, usually in the form of
reading glasses. Multiple optic (multifocal) IOLs are available which claim to
allow good vision at a range of distances. It is unclear whether this benefit
outweighs the optical compromises inherent in multifocal IOLs.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review was to assess the effects of multifocal 
IOLs, including effects on visual acuity, subjective visual satisfaction,
spectacle dependence, glare and contrast sensitivity, compared to standard
monofocal lenses in people undergoing cataract surgery.
METHODS:
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision 
Group Trials Register), The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 2, MEDLINE (January 1946
to March 2012), EMBASE (January 1980 to March 2012), the metaRegister of
Controlled Trials (mRCT) (www.controlled-trials.com), ClinicalTrials.gov
(www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry
Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or
language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. The electronic
databases were last searched on 6 March 2012. We searched the reference lists of 
relevant articles and contacted investigators of included studies and
manufacturers of multifocal IOLs for information about additional published and
unpublished studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised controlled trials comparing a multifocal IOL
of any type with a monofocal IOL as control were included. Both unilateral and
bilateral implantation trials were included.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors collected data and assessed trial
quality. Where possible, we pooled data from the individual studies using a
random-effects model, otherwise we tabulated data.
MAIN RESULTS: Sixteen completed trials (1608 participants) and two ongoing trials
were identified. All included trials compared multifocal and monofocal lenses but
there was considerable variety in the make and model of lenses implanted. Overall
we considered the trials at risk of performance and detection bias because it was
difficult to mask patients and outcome assessors. It was also difficult to assess
the role of reporting bias. There was moderate quality evidence that similar
distance acuity is achieved with both types of lenses (pooled risk ratio, RR for 
unaided visual acuity worse than 6/6: 0.98, 95% con-fidence interval, CI 0.91 to 
1.05). There was also evidence that people with multifocal lenses had better near
vision but methodological and statistical heterogeneity meant that we did not
calculate a pooled estimate for effect on near vision. Total freedom from use of 
glasses was achieved more frequently with multifocal than monofocal IOLs. Adverse
subjective visual phenomena, particularly haloes, or rings around lights, were
more prevalent and more troublesome in participants with the multifocal IOL and
there was evidence of reduced contrast sensitivity with the multifocal lenses.

PMID: 25626855  [PubMed - in process]


345. Seizure. 2015 Feb;25:52-61. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2014.12.001. Epub 2014 Dec 23.

Risk of a lamotrigine-related skin rash: Current meta-analysis and postmarketing 
cohort analysis.

Wang XQ(1), Xiong J(2), Xu WH(3), Yu SY(4), Huang XS(4), Zhang JT(4), Tian CL(4),
Huang DH(4), Jia WQ(4), Lang SY(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The Chinese PLA General Hospital, No. 28, Fuxing
Road, Beijing 100853, China. Electronic address: bjxqwang@yahoo.com.cn.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, The Chinese PLA General Hospital, No. 28,
Fuxing Road, Beijing 100853, China. (3)Department of Scientific Research, The
Chinese PLA General Hospital, No. 28, Fuxing Road, Beijing 100853, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Chinese PLA General Hospital, No. 28, Fuxing
Road, Beijing 100853, China. (5)Department of Neurology, The Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, No. 28, Fuxing Road, Beijing 100853, China. Electronic address:
lansy@263.net.

PURPOSE: We systematically reviewed studies to provide current evidence on the
incidence and risk of skin rash in patients with LTG therapy.
METHODS: PubMed and Scopus databases, up to 15 March 2014 were searched to
identify relevant studies. Eligible studies included prospective studies,
retrospective studies and postmarketing reports, which included data of skin rash
in patients with LTG therapy.
RESULTS: Forty-one articles met the entry criteria. A total of 4447 patients with
LTG therapy from 26 prospective studies, 2977 patients from 8 retrospective
studies, and 26,126 patients from 5/7 postmarketing reports were included. The
overall incidence of skin rash with LTG therapy was 9.98% (444/4447) from
prospective studies, 7.19% (214/2977) from retrospective studies, and 2.09%
(547/26,126) from postmarketing reports. A meta-analysis of the risk of skin rash
in 21 prospective studies, did not show a significant difference between patients
with LTG and other drugs, including placebo, other ADEs or lithium (OR
0.99-2.41). In 6 respective studies, there was a significantly higher OR in
patients with LTG compared with those with non-aromatic AEDs. However, there was 
no significant difference in rash risk between patients with LTG and aromatic
AEDs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed that LTG significantly increased the risk of
developing a skin rash compared to non-aromatic AEDs. Our results support the
need for large prospective population-based studies and clinical trials to
determine whether LTG increases the risk of developing a skin rash than compared 
to other drugs.

Copyright © 2014 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 25645637  [PubMed - in process]


346. Semin Oncol Nurs. 2015 Feb;31(1):13-30. doi: 10.1016/j.soncn.2014.11.003. Epub
2014 Dec 3.

Cancer prehabilitation and its role in improving health outcomes and reducing
health care costs.

Silver JK.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the current state of cancer prehabilitation care and the
impact that it may have on health-related and financial outcomes.
DATA SOURCES: Clinical trials, reviews and meta-analyses.
CONCLUSION: Research demonstrates that prehabilitation interventions may improve 
physical and/or psychological outcomes and help patients function at a higher
level throughout their cancer treatment. Establishing a baseline status at
diagnosis provides an opportunity to gain insight into the burden that cancer and
its treatment can place on survivors with respect to physical and psychological
impairments, function, and disability. Targeted interventions may reduce the
incidence and/or severity of future impairments that often lead to reduced
surgical complications, hospital lengths of stay, hospital readmissions, and
overall health care costs. Thus, cancer prehabilitation is an opportunity to
positively impact patient health-related and financial outcomes from diagnosis
onward and, by decreasing the financial impact that cancer can have on
individuals, may prove to be a sound investment for patients, hospitals, payers
and society.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Nurses, and particularly navigators, have an
opportunity to significantly impact care through patient screening,
prehabilitation assessments, documentation of baseline patient status and, in
some cases, especially when impairments are not present at baseline, provide
interventions designed to improve physical and psychological health before the
start of upcoming oncology treatments and reduce the likelihood of patients
developing future impairments.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25636392  [PubMed - in process]


347. Target Oncol. 2015 Feb 1. [Epub ahead of print]

Gefitinib: a review of its use in adults with advanced non-small cell lung
cancer.

Dhillon S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, 0754, Auckland, New Zealand,
demail@springer.com.

Gefitinib (Iressa®) is a selective small-molecule epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR TKI) indicated for the treatment 
of adults with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
with activating mutations of EGFR tyrosine kinase. Large phase III or IV clinical
trials in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC showed that
gefitinib as first- or subsequent-line treatment significantly prolonged
progression-free survival (PFS) and improved objective response rates and/or
health-related quality of life parameters in patients with activating EGFR
mutations and in clinically selected patients (e.g., Asian patients or
never-smokers) who are more likely to harbour these mutations. Overall survival
did not increase significantly with gefitinib, although post-study treatments may
have had a confounding effect on this outcome. Gefitinib was generally well
tolerated in these studies, with mild or moderate skin reactions,
gastrointestinal disturbances and elevations in liver enzymes among the most
common adverse reactions in gefitinib recipients; interstitial lung disease has
also been reported in <6 % of gefitinib recipients. Compared with chemotherapy,
gefitinib as first- or subsequent-line therapy provided similar or greater PFS
benefit and was generally associated with fewer haematological adverse events,
neurotoxicity, asthenic disorders, as well as grade ≥3 adverse events. Although
the position of gefitinib with respect to other EGFR TKIs is not definitively
established, current evidence indicates that gefitinib monotherapy is an
effective and generally well-tolerated first- or subsequent-line treatment option
for patients with NSCLC and activating EGFR mutations who have not received an
EGFR TKI previously.

PMID: 25637458  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


348. Ther Adv Drug Saf. 2015 Feb;6(1):15-9. doi: 10.1177/2042098614560736.

New antiepileptic medication linked to blue discoloration of the skin and eyes.

Clark S(1), Antell A(2), Kaufman K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW Rochester Minnesota
55905, USA. (2)Glendale Adventist Medical Center Department of Pharmaceutical
Sciences 1509 Wilson Terrace Glendale, CA 91206, USA. (3)Department of Pharmacy
Mayo Clinic 200 First Street SW Rochester, MN 55905.

Ezogabine is an antiepileptic medication approved in June 2011 by the US Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) as an adjunctive treatment for partial seizures.
Minimal drug interactions and a novel mechanism of action made ezogabine an
appealing new treatment option. However, adverse effects reported during clinical
trials and following drug approval have been alarming. A Risk Evaluation
Mitigation Strategy (REMS) program has been established for urinary retention. A 
safety alert was published in April 2013 warning ezogabine may cause retinal
pigment abnormalities and/or blue-gray discoloration, most notably on or near the
lips, nail beds, sclera and conjunctiva with long-term use. In October 2013, the 
FDA announced a formal label change to ezogabine to include a black boxed warning
emphasizing the previously reported warnings of eye and skin discoloration and
permanent vision changes. Given the unknown nature of the pathophysiology,
consequences and potential for reversibility of these effects, GlaxoSmithKline
and the FDA have published recommendations for patients currently receiving
ezogabine. Further data from published case reports and long-term safety trials
in the future may lend additional insight into these concerning effects.

PMCID: PMC4308410
PMID: 25642319  [PubMed]


349. Ther Adv Hematol. 2015 Feb;6(1):25-36. doi: 10.1177/2040620714561581.

The biology behind PI3K inhibition in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.

Ortiz-Maldonado V(1), García-Morillo M(2), Delgado J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Clínic, Department of Haematology Calle Villarroel, 170 08036
Barcelona, Spain. (2)Hospital Clínic, Department of Medical Oncology Calle
Villarroel, 170 08036 Barcelona, Spain.

Phosphoinositide 3'-kinase (PI3K) is a key component of both chronic active and
tonic B-cell receptor-signalling pathways. As such, PI3K inhibitors have emerged 
as promising therapeutic agents for diverse lymphoid malignancies, particularly
chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Multiple in vitro experiments and clinical trials 
have shown efficacy of these agents across all prognostic subgroups with a
favourable toxicity profile. Moreover, in vitro studies suggest that combinations
with monoclonal antibodies and/or other immune strategies could enhance the
effect of PI3K inhibition.

PMCID: PMC4298491
PMID: 25642313  [PubMed]


350. Ther Adv Musculoskelet Dis. 2015 Feb;7(1):11-6. doi: 10.1177/1759720X14566424.

Inflammatory eye reactions with bisphosphonates and other osteoporosis
medications: what are the risks?

Clark EM(1), Durup D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Academic Rheumatology, Musculoskeletal Research Unit, University of Bristol,
Learning and Research Building, Southmead Hospital, Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol
BS10 5NB, UK. (2)Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health
and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Inflammatory eye reactions (IERs) are rare but have been associated with
medications to treat osteoporosis. The aim of this review is to summarize the
current literature on the association between IERs and specific medications to
treat osteoporosis (bisphosphonates, selective estrogen receptor modulators,
strontium, denosumab and teriparatide). We cover the known epidemiology,
potential pathogenic mechanisms and a resume of unanswered questions. Briefly,
this review highlights that none of the existing randomized clinical trials were 
powered to identify these rare adverse events, and the majority of the
information available is from spontaneous case reports and case series reporting 
associations between bisphosphonates and IERs. No case reports describe IERs
after other anti-osteoporosis medications. Importantly, some case reports
describe recurrence of the IER after affected patients were rechallenged with the
same or another bisphosphonate, and that no reported cases resolved without
discontinuation of the bisphosphonate. However, three large population-based
cohort studies have shown conflicting results between osteoporosis treatments and
IERs, but overall these studies suggest that IERs may actually be part of
underlying inflammatory disease processes that also cause osteoporosis, rather
than due to the medications used to treat osteoporosis themselves. There are no
clear pathogenic mechanisms for how bisphosphonates could potentially cause IERs.
However, the drug is secreted into the tears by the lacrimal gland and could
cause irritation to the mucous membranes with subsequent release of inflammatory 
mediators, similar to the systemic response typically seen after infusion of
bisphosphonates. However, in summary it is still not known whether there is a
true causal association between bisphosphonates or other anti-osteoporosis
medications and IERs, or whether it is confounding by indication and is actually 
due to underlying inflammatory diseases that cause both osteoporosis and IERs.

PMCID: PMC4314301
PMID: 25650170  [PubMed]


351. Ther Adv Urol. 2015 Feb;7(1):22-40. doi: 10.1177/1756287214553968.

The potential role of stem cells in the treatment of urinary incontinence.

Tran C(1), Damaser MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute, The Cleveland Clinic, USA. (2)The
Cleveland Clinic, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 9500 Euclid Avenue ND20, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

Voiding dysfunction encompasses a wide range of urologic disorders including
stress urinary incontinence and overactive bladder that have a detrimental impact
on the quality of life of millions of men and women worldwide. In recent years,
we have greatly expanded our understanding of the pathophysiology of these
clinical conditions. However, current gold standard therapies often provide
symptomatic relief without targeting the underlying etiology of disease
development. Recently, the use of stem cells to halt disease progression and
reverse underlying pathology has emerged as a promising method to restore normal 
voiding function. Stem cells are classically thought to aid in tissue repair via 
their ability for multilineage differentiation and self-renewal. They may also
exert a therapeutic effect via the secretion of bioactive factors that direct
other stem and progenitor cells to the area of injury, and that also possess
antiapoptotic, antiscarring, neovascularization, and immunomodulatory properties.
Local injections of mesenchymal, muscle-derived, and adipose-derived stem cells
have all yielded successful outcomes in animal models of mechanical, nerve, or
external urethral sphincter injury in stress urinary incontinence. Similarly,
direct injection of mesenchymal and adipose-derived stem cells into the bladder
in animal models of bladder overactivity have demonstrated efficacy. Early
clinical trials using stem cells for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence
in both male and female patients have also achieved promising functional results 
with minimal adverse effects. Although many challenges remain to be addressed
prior to the clinical implementation of this technology, novel stem-cell-based
therapies are an exciting potential therapy for voiding dysfunction.

PMCID: PMC4294800
PMID: 25642292  [PubMed]


352. Transplantation. 2015 Feb;99(2):381-4. doi: 10.1097/TP.0000000000000560.

Establishment of a global virtual laboratory for transplantation: a symposium
report.

Geissler EK(1), Tullius SG, Chong AS.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Surgery, Section of Experimental Surgery, University Hospital 
Regensburg, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany. 2 Division of
Transplant Surgery and Transplant Surgery Research Laboratory, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. 3 Department of Surgery,
Section of Transplantation, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL.

Advancing the field of transplantation by developing improved and novel treatment
strategies will require a detailed understanding of changes and adaptations of
alloimmunity, both over the short-term and long-term. Presently, we rely on
traditional measures that may not optimally reflect benefits of new treatments.
Thus, collecting reliable basic information about changes of the immune response 
along the entire posttransplantation course will improve our understanding of how
immune mechanisms evolve and guide the introduction of novel clinical approaches.
The gathering of good quality data from transplant recipients in various clinical
trials will require immune monitoring that is reliable and comparable so that
large sets of information from individual trials can be confidently analyzed to
reach rigorous conclusions. A uniform standard of testing is thus a prerequisite 
toward this goal. Based on the assumption that the transplantation community will
in general be supportive of this concept, this meeting proposed establishing a
global virtual laboratory as a means of developing and disseminating detailed and
rigorous protocols for the monitoring of alloimmune responses.

PMCID: PMC4319997 [Available on 2016-02-01]
PMID: 25594556  [PubMed - in process]


353. Trends Genet. 2015 Feb;31(2):97-107. doi: 10.1016/j.tig.2014.12.005. Epub 2015
Jan 22.

Paths to a malaria vaccine illuminated by parasite genomics.

Conway DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pathogen Molecular Biology Department, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical
Diseases, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London
WC1E 7HT, UK. Electronic address: david.conway@lshtm.ac.uk.

More human death and disease is caused by malaria parasites than by all other
eukaryotic pathogens combined. As early as the sequencing of the first human
genome, malaria parasite genomics was prioritized to fuel the discovery of
vaccine candidate antigens. This stimulated increased research on malaria,
generating new understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of
infection and immunity. This review of recent developments illustrates how new
approaches in parasite genomics, and increasingly large amounts of data from
population studies, are helping to identify antigens that are promising lead
targets. Although these results have been encouraging, effective discovery and
characterization need to be coupled with more innovation and funding to translate
findings into newly designed vaccine products for clinical trials.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620796  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


354. Unfallchirurg. 2015 Feb;118(2):130-7. doi: 10.1007/s00113-014-2616-1.

[Exoskeletons for rehabilitation of patients with spinal cord injuries : Options 
and limitations].

[Article in German]

Aach M(1), Meindl RC, Geßmann J, Schildhauer TA, Citak M, Cruciger O.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Rückenmarkverletzte, Chirurgische Universitätsklinik und
Poliklinik, BG-Universitätsklinikum Bergmannsheil, Ruhr-Universität Bochum,
Bürkle-de-la-Camp-Platz 1, 44789, Bochum, Deutschland,
mirko.aach@bergmannsheil.de.

BACKGROUND: Mobile exoskeletons are increasingly being applied in the course of
rehabilitation and provision of medical aids to patients with spinal cord
injuries.
OBJECTIVES AND METHODS: This article gives a description of the currently
available exoskeletal systems and the clinical application including scientific
and medical evidence, to derive recommendations regarding clinical practice of
the various exoskeletons in the rehabilitation of patients with spinal cord
injuries.
RESULTS: The different systems represent a useful adjunct to the therapeutic
regimen depending on the medical objectives. Posture-controlled exoskeletons in
particular enable mobilization of patients with neurological gait disorders via
direct motion support. In addition the neurologically controlled exoskeleton HAL®
leads to functional improvements in patients with residual muscular functions in 
the chronic phase of spinal cord injury in terms of improved walking abilities
subsequent to training. However, beneficial effects on bone density, bladder
function and perfusion are conceivable but not yet adequately supported by
evidence. Positive effects on spasticity and neuropathic pain are currently based
only on case series or small clinical trials.
CONCLUSION: Although exoskeletons are not yet an established tool in the
treatment of spinal cord injuries, the systems will play a more important role in
rehabilitation of patients with spinal cord injuries in the future.
Neurologically controlled exoskeletons show beneficial effects in the treatment
of acute and chronic spinal cord injuries and might therefore evolve to be a
useful alternative to conventional locomotion training.

PMID: 25672637  [PubMed - in process]


355. United European Gastroenterol J. 2015 Feb;3(1):53-62. doi:
10.1177/2050640614555946.

Comparison of adequate relief with symptom, global, and responder endpoints in
linaclotide phase 3 trials in IBS-C.

Camilleri M(1), Lembo AJ(2), Lavins BJ(3), MacDougall JE(3), Carson RT(4),
Williams VS(5), Nelson LM(5), Shiff SJ(4), Currie MG(3), Kurtz CB(3), Johnston
JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 
(2)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA. (3)Ironwood
Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, MA, USA. (4)Forest Research Institute, Jersey City,
NJ, USA. (5)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Optimal clinical trial endpoints for irritable bowel syndrome with
constipation (IBS-C) are uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this article is to compare adequate relief (AR) to
abdominal/bowel symptoms, global endpoints, and FDA and EMA responder criteria;
and to use AR as an anchor to assess clinically meaningful change (CMC) in IBS-C 
symptoms.
METHODS: Using pooled 12-week data from two phase 3 linaclotide clinical trials, 
daily abdominal/bowel symptoms and weekly global assessments were correlated with
AR. Symptom CMC thresholds were estimated using AR as an anchor. Agreement
between AR and FDA/EMA responder criteria was assessed.
RESULTS: Correlations of AR with percentage change in abdominal symptoms, bowel
symptoms, and global endpoints ranged from 0.48-0.54, 0.32-0.39, and 0.61-0.71,
respectively. Using AR as an anchor, CMC thresholds were 29% improvement in
abdominal pain, 29% improvement in abdominal discomfort, and 0.7/week increase in
CSBMs, similar to thresholds for IBS-C responder endpoints recommended by the FDA
and EMA. There was considerable agreement of weekly responder rates between AR
and the FDA and EMA endpoints (on average, 70%-76% and 71%-82% of weeks with
agreement, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: AR bridges IBS-C clinical trials, putting into perspective the
disparate primary endpoints recommended by professional societies and regulatory 
authorities, and allowing researchers, practitioners, and regulators to compare
trial results.

PMCID: PMC4315678
PMID: 25653859  [PubMed]


356. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2015 Jan 31. [Epub ahead of print]

Perineural invasion as a prognostic factor for cervical cancer: a systematic
review and meta-analysis.

Cui L(1), Shi Y, Zhang GN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecological Oncology, Second People's Hospital of Sichuan,
Sichuan Cancer Hospital, Chengdu, 610041, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Recent observational studies have reported that perineural invasion
(PNI) may be a negative prognostic factor in cervical cancer.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this meta-analysis is to systematically analyse the
effect of PNI on overall survival and disease-free survival.
SEARCH STRATEGY: The PubMed and Cochrane clinical trials databases were searched 
for articles with publication dates up to September 2013.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Retrospective observational studies with survival analysis
for perineural invasion after radical hysterectomy plus lymphadenectomy of
cervical cancer were selected.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Trial characteristics and outcomes and quality
measures based on the Newcastle-Ottawa scale (NOS) were independently extracted. 
The overall survival and disease-free survival of patients with PNI were measured
using a hazard ratio (HR) for time to event outcomes.
MAIN RESULTS: The meta-analysis of these studies demonstrated that cervical
cancer with PNI was associated with a lower overall survival rate (HR 2.21, 95 % 
CI 1.36-3.59, P = 0.001). Although the disease-free survival was lower in the PNI
group (HR 1.35, 95 % CI 0.78-2.31, P = 0.28), the results were not statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSION: Patients with PNI-positive cervical cancer have a poor overall
survival rate; therefore, we can conclude that perineural invasion (PNI) is an
adverse prognostic factor in cervical cancer. Based on these results, PNI should 
be an independent prognostic factor for cervical cancer and the decision to
proceed with adjuvant therapy after surgery.

PMID: 25637504  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


357. BMC Immunol. 2015 Jan 31;16(1):1. [Epub ahead of print]

Adoptive T-cell therapy of prostate cancer targeting the cancer stem cell antigen
EpCAM.

Deng Z, Wu Y, Ma W, Zhang S, Zhang YQ.

BackgroundAdoptive transfer of tumor infiltrating or circulating lymphocytes
transduced with tumor antigen receptors has been examined in various clinical
trials to treat human cancers. The tumor antigens targeted by transferred
lymphocytes affects the efficacy of this therapeutic approach. Because cancer
stem cells (CSCs) play an important role in tumor growth and metastasis, we
hypothesized that adoptive transfer of T cells targeting a CSC antigen could
result in dramatic anti-tumor effects.ResultsAn EpCAM-specific chimeric antigen
receptor (CAR) was constructed to transduce human peripheral blood lymphocytes
(PBLs) and thereby enable them to target the CSC marker EpCAM. To investigate the
therapeutic capabilities of PBLs expressing EpCAM-specific CARs, we used two
different tumor models, PC3, the human prostate cancer cell line, which has low
expression levels of EpCAM, and PC3M, a highly metastatic clone of PC3 that has
high expression levels of EpCAM. We demonstrate that CAR-expressing PBLs can kill
PC3M tumor cells in vitro and in vivo. Despite the low expression of EpCAM on PC3
cells, CAR-expressing PBLs significantly inhibited tumor growth and prolonged
mouse survival in a PC3 metastasis model, probably by targeting the highly
proliferative and metastatic population of cancer cells.ConclusionsOur data
demonstrate that PBLs expressing with EpCAM-specific CARs have significant
anti-tumor activity against prostate cancer. Therefore, the adoptive transfer of 
T cells targeting EpCAM could have great potential as a cancer treatment.

PMCID: PMC4318439
PMID: 25636521  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


358. BMC Public Health. 2015 Jan 31;15(1):56. [Epub ahead of print]

A web-based intervention for abused women: the New Zealand isafe randomised
controlled trial protocol.

Koziol-McLain J, Vandal AC, Nada-Raja S, Wilson D, Glass NE, Eden KB, McLean C,
Dobbs T, Case J.

BackgroundIntimate partner violence (IPV) and its associated negative mental
health consequences are significant for women in New Zealand and internationally.
One of the most widely recommended interventions is safety planning. However, few
women experiencing violence access specialist services for safety planning. A
safety decision aid, weighing the dangers of leaving or staying in an abusive
relationships, gives women the opportunity to prioritise, plan and take action to
increase safety for themselves and their children. This randomised controlled
trial is testing the effectiveness of an innovative, interactive web-based safety
decision aid. The trial is an international collaborative concurrent replication 
of a USA trial (IRIS study NCT01312103), regionalised for the Aotearoa New
Zealand culture and offers fully automated online trial recruitment, eligibility 
screening and consent.Methods/DesignIn a fully automated web-based trial (isafe) 
340 abused women will be randomly assigned in equal numbers to a safety decision 
aid intervention or usual safety planning control website. Intervention
components include: (a) safety priority setting, (b) danger assessment and (c) an
individually tailored safety action plan. Self-reported outcome measures are
collected at baseline and 3, 6, and 12-months post-baseline.Primary outcomes are 
depression (measured by Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale,
Revised) and IPV exposure (measured by Severity Violence Against Women Scale) at 
12 months post-baseline. Secondary outcomes include PTSD, psychological abuse,
decisional conflict, safety behaviors and danger in the
relationship.DiscussionThis trial will provide much-needed information on the
potential relationships among safety planning, improved mental health, reduced
violence as well as decreased decisional conflict related to safety in the
abusive relationship. The novel web-based safety decision aid intervention may
provide a cost-effective, easily accessed safety-planning resource that can be
translated into clinical and community practice by multiple health disciplines
and advocates. The trial will also provide information about how women in abusive
relationships safely access safety information and resources through the
Internet. Finally, the trial will inform other research teams on the feasibility 
and acceptability of fully automated recruitment, eligibility screening, consent 
and retention procedures.Trial registrationTrial registered on 03 July 2012 on
the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12612000708853.

PMCID: PMC4314812
PMID: 25637195  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


359. BMC Public Health. 2015 Jan 31;15(1):42. [Epub ahead of print]

Rationale and study protocol to evaluate the SunSmart policy intervention: a
cluster randomised controlled trial of a primary school-based health promotion
program.

Dudley DA, Winslade MJ, Wright BJ, Cotton WG, McIver JL, Jackson KS.

BackgroundPrevious evaluations of the SunSmart Program have supported the link
between a written sun protection policy and improved sun protection behaviours in
New South Wales (NSW) primary schools. However these evaluations have relied on
self-reported data and research suggests that direct observations are required to
better represent schools¿ usual sun protective practices.Methods/designData will 
be collected in the summer months of 2014, 2015, and 2016 as part of an 18-month 
cluster-controlled trial in NSW primary schools (n¿=¿20). Researchers will
conduct three direct observations to record students¿ hat use and teachers¿ use
of sun protective measures during recess and lunch periods in each school.
Researchers will also record the volume of sunscreen that the Year 6 classes in
each school utilise over the term. At the conclusion of baseline data collection,
five schools will be randomised into an intervention group that will work with
researchers to develop a policy-driven intervention to improve sun safety
behaviour in NSW primary schools.DiscussionAn initial review of relevant
Australian and New Zealand literature suggests that provision of policy support
is likely to improve school sun protection practices; however there is no
suggested model for this support. This will be the first objective analysis of
sun safe behaviours leading to a policy-driven intervention conducted in
Australian primary schools since the 1990s, and will inform the future direction 
of sun safety in our schools.Trial registrationAustralian and New Zealand
Clinical Trials Register ACTRN12614000926639 Registered 28th August 2014.

PMCID: PMC4323015
PMID: 25636822  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


360. Calcif Tissue Int. 2015 Jan 31. [Epub ahead of print]

Integrated Therapies for Osteoporosis and Sarcopenia: From Signaling Pathways to 
Clinical Trials.

Girgis CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Westmead Millennium Institute for Medical Research, 176 Hawkesbury Rd,
Westmead, NSW, Australia, christian.girgis@sydney.edu.au.

Sarcopenia and osteoporosis are two sides of the same coin. They represent
different aspects of the same age-related process of musculoskeletal atrophy and 
together culminate in falls, fractures, deconditioning, and increased mortality
in older individuals. However, the current therapeutic approach to the prevention
of minimal trauma fracture is unilateral and focuses solely on bone. In theory,
an integrated approach that recognizes the interaction between muscle and bone
could break the vicious cycle of their combined involution and more effectively
minimize falls/fractures. In this review, signaling pathways and cross-talk
mechanisms that integrate bone/muscle, and the emergence of novel therapies that 
exploit these pathways to target osteoporosis/sarcopenia will be discussed. In
broad terms, these agents act on nuclear receptors (e.g., VDR, AR) or
transmembrane receptors (e.g., activins, GH/IGF-1) expressed in muscle and bone, 
and seek to alter biologic responses to musculoskeletal aging, loading, and
injury. Challenges in the development of these dual bone-muscle therapies, early 
clinical trials examining their safety/efficacy, and novel targets that hold
promise in the reversal of musculoskeletal aging will be discussed.

PMID: 25633430  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


361. Clin Drug Investig. 2015 Jan 31. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparative Changes of Lipid Levels in Treatment-Naive, HIV-1-Infected Adults
Treated with Dolutegravir vs. Efavirenz, Raltegravir, and Ritonavir-Boosted
Darunavir-Based Regimens Over 48 Weeks.

Quercia R(1), Roberts J, Martin-Carpenter L, Zala C.

Author information: 
(1)ViiV Healthcare, Brentford, UK.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Long-term use of antiretroviral therapy (ART) to treat
HIV infection has been associated with dyslipidemia and metabolic and
cardiovascular complications. Available options for patients at risk of
cardiovascular disease include antiretroviral drugs with improved lipid profiles.
Dolutegravir is one of a new generation of HIV integrase inhibitors recently
incorporated into the US Department of Health and Human Services, German,
Spanish, and Italian HIV treatment guidelines as a preferred first-line third
agent in combination with dual nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) 
backbone therapies. To understand the lipid profile of dolutegravir in the
context of combination ART, we analyzed the lipid outcomes at 48 weeks in
ART-naive participants in four phase IIb-IIIb clinical trials.
METHODS: Variables included in this analysis were total cholesterol (TC),
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein (HDL)
cholesterol (HDL-C), TC/HDL ratio, and triglycerides at baseline and week 48.
RESULTS: In a comparative analysis, dolutegravir demonstrated a broadly neutral
effect on lipids versus efavirenz or ritonavir-boosted darunavir; in both
comparisons, patients taking dolutegravir exhibited smaller increases in TC,
LDL-C, and triglyceride levels. In comparison with raltegravir, dolutegravir
exhibited a similar lipid profile, including small increases in TC, LDL-C, and
triglyceride levels for both agents. In the pooled dolutegravir analysis, minimal
increases in LDL-C and triglycerides were observed but mean values at 48 weeks
remained below National Cholesterol Education Program target levels. HDL-C levels
increased at 48 weeks, and the mean TC/HDL-C ratio was 0.6 at 48 weeks; these
values are associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Together, these data show that dolutegravir has a safer lipid
profile in combination ART and provides an important treatment option for older
patients who may have other risk factors for metabolic syndrome or cardiovascular
disease.

PMID: 25637061  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


362. Drugs Aging. 2015 Jan 31. [Epub ahead of print]

Current Drug Treatment of Hyperlipidemia in Older Adults.

Dixon DL(1), Donohoe KL, Ogbonna KC, Barden SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy and Outcomes Science, Virginia Commonwealth
University School of Pharmacy, 410 North 12th Street, PO Box 980533, Richmond,
VA, 23298-0533, USA, dldixon@vcu.edu.

Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) remains the leading cause of
death, especially in older adults. Managing modifiable risk factors (e.g.,
hyperlipidemia, hypertension) remains the primary approach to prevent ASCVD
events and ASCVD-related mortality. Statins are generally considered one of the
most effective approaches to reduce ASCVD risk, especially for secondary
prevention, yet remain underutilized in older adults. The evidence to support
statin therapy in older adults is less robust than in their younger counterparts,
especially in individuals aged 75 years and older. Recent lipid guidelines have
raised this concern, yet statin therapy is recommended in 'at risk' older adults.
Determining which older adults should receive statin therapy for primary
prevention of ASCVD is challenging, as the currently available risk estimation
tools are of limited use in those aged over 75 years. Furthermore, non-statin
therapies have been de-emphasized in recent clinical practice guidelines and
remain understudied in the older adult population. This is unfortunate given that
older adults are less likely to tolerate moderate- to high-intensity statins.
Non-statin therapies could be viable options in this population if more was
understood about their ability to lower ASCVD risk and safety profiles.
Nevertheless, lipid-lowering agents remain an integral component of the overall
strategy to reduce atherogenic burden in older adults. Future research in this
area should aim to enroll more older adults in clinical trials, determine the
utility of ASCVD risk estimation for primary prevention, and investigate the role
of non-statin therapies in this population.

PMID: 25637391  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


363. Gynecol Oncol. 2015 Jan 31. pii: S0090-8258(15)00590-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ygyno.2015.01.547. [Epub ahead of print]

Perioperative trajectory of patient reported symptoms: A pilot study in
gynecologic oncology patients.

Meyer LA(1), Nick AM(2), Shi Q(3), Wang XS(3), Williams L(3), Brock T(2), Iniesta
MD(2), Rangel K(2), Lu KH(2), Ramirez PT(2).

Author information: 
(1)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Gynecologic
Oncology and Reproductive Medicine, USA. Electronic address:
lmeyer@mdanderson.org. (2)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Department of Gynecologic Oncology and Reproductive Medicine, USA. (3)The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Symptom Research,
USA.

OBJECTIVE: With the growing focus on patient-centered care, patient reported
outcomes (PROs) are becoming an important component to clinical trials and
quality metrics. The objective of this study was to pilot the collection of
patient reported symptom burden in women undergoing surgery in a gynecologic
oncology practice.
METHODS: Perioperative patient reported symptom burden was measured for women
undergoing laparotomy on the gynecologic oncology service at the University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. Symptoms were assessed using the M.D. Anderson
Symptom Inventory (MDASI-OC), a 27 item tool validated for use in patients with
ovarian cancer. The MDASI-OC was administered as a preoperative baseline, daily
while admitted to the hospital after surgery, twice a week on the first week
after discharge and then weekly until 8weeks postoperatively.
RESULTS: 29 patients were evaluable. Seventy-five percent of patients had a
diagnosis of ovarian cancer. Of those patients, half underwent a primary
debulking surgery and the other half had neoadjuvant chemotherapy prior to
interval cytoreductive surgery. In the postoperative inpatient setting, the five 
symptoms with the highest overall burden were fatigue, pain, abdominal pain, dry 
mouth and drowsiness. Longitudinal change of the top 5 symptoms during
hospitalization did not show any significant difference between those who had
neoadjuvant chemotherapy and those who did not.
CONCLUSION: The collection of longitudinal PROs to assess symptom burden is
feasible in patients undergoing gynecologic oncology surgery. Patient reported
outcomes are a crucial component of patient-centered research and the
longitudinal collection and analysis of symptom burden can allow for more
meaningful comparisons of surgical technique and perioperative care.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25647455  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


364. Int Urol Nephrol. 2015 Jan 31. [Epub ahead of print]

The effects of short-term vitamin D supplementation on glucose metabolism in
dialysis patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Sarathy H(1), Pramanik V, Kahn J, Abramowitz MK, Meier K, Kishore P, Melamed ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine/Jacobi
Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.

PURPOSE: We tested whether short-term vitamin D supplementation improves insulin 
resistance in patients with kidney disease, a condition with little intrinsic
vitamin D activity.
METHODS: PubMed, EMBASE and CENTRAL were searched for relevant observational
studies and randomized clinical trials (RCTs). Random-effects models were
employed for meta-analysis, and effect sizes were summarized as standardized mean
difference (SMD) with 95 % confidence intervals. Separate analyses were done for 
RCTs and non-randomized intervention studies (NRIS).
RESULTS: Seventeen studies (5 RCTs and 12 NRIS) were included. The meta-analysis 
population (n = 131) was mostly middle aged (40-50 years), male and non-diabetic,
and on hemodialysis. The duration (4-12 weeks) and type of supplementation varied
between studies. Among RCTs, compared to placebo, vitamin D supplementation was
associated with significant decrease in fasting glucose [SMD -1.13, (-2.11 to
-0.11)] and PTH levels [SMD -1.50, (-2.95 to -0.04)] but no difference in fasting
insulin levels [SMD 1.32, (-0.15 to 2.79)]. Among NRIS, there was only a
significant decrease in PTH levels [SMD -1.68, (-2.55 to -0.82)] between pre- and
post-vitamin D treatment levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Short-term (4-12 weeks) supplementation with vitamin D is associated
with lower fasting glucose levels in ESRD with no change in fasting insulin
levels. However, the findings from this study are limited by the studies that
were used in the meta-analysis, which were mostly small, used multiple different 
vitamin D compounds and dosing regimens, and had large heterogeneity, and funnel 
plots showed that there was a dearth of studies with null or negative finding.
Therefore, larger RCTs need to be performed to answer this important clinical
question.

PMID: 25636811  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


365. J Infect. 2015 Jan 31. pii: S0163-4453(15)00047-X. doi:
10.1016/j.jinf.2015.01.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Early-onset pneumonia after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

Kakavas S(1), Mongardon N(2), Cariou A(3), Gulati A(4), Xanthos T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Hellenic Society of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation, Athens, Greece; Pulmonary
Department, Evangelismos, General Hospital of Athens, Greece. Electronic address:
sotikaka@yahoo.com. (2)Université Paris Est, Faculté de Médecine, Service
d'Anesthésie et des Réanimations Chirurgicales, Hôpitaux Universitaires Henri
Mondor, Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Créteil, France; Service
d'Anesthésie et des Réanimations Chirurgicales, Hôpitaux Universitaires Henri
Mondor, Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Université Paris Est, Faculté 
de Médecine, INSERM U955, Equipe 3, physiopathologie et pharmacologie des
insuffisances coronaires et cardiaques, Créteil, France. Electronic address:
nicolas.mongardon@hmn.aphp.fr. (3)Université Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris
Cité, Faculté de Médecine, Service de Réanimation Médicale, Hôpital Cochin,
Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, 
Paris, France; Service de Réanimation Médicale, Hôpital Cochin, Hôpitaux
Universitaires Paris Centre, Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris,
Université Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Faculté de Médecine; INSERM
U970, Paris Cardiovascular Research Centre (PARCC), European Georges Pompidou
Hospital, Paris, France. Electronic address: alain.cariou@cch.aphp.fr.
(4)Midwestern University, Downers Grove, IL, USA. Electronic address:
dr.anil.gulati@gmail.com. (5)Hellenic Society of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation,
Athens, Greece; Midwestern University, Downers Grove, IL, USA. Electronic
address: theodorosxanthos@yahoo.com.

Early-onset pneumonia (EOP) is a common complication after successful
cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Currently, EOP diagnosis is difficult because
usual diagnostic tools are blunted by the features of post-cardiac arrest
syndrome and therapeutic hypothermia itself. When the diagnosis of EOP is
suspected, empiric antimicrobial therapy should be considered following
bronchopulmonary sampling. The onset of EOP increases the length of mechanical
ventilation duration and intensive care unit stay, but its influence on survival 
and neurological outcome seems marginal. Therapeutic hypothermia has been
recognized as an independent risk factor for this infectious complication. All
together, these observations underline the need for future prospective clinical
trials to better delineate pathogens and risk factors associated with EOP. In
addition, there is a need for diagnostic approaches serving the accurate
diagnosis of EOP.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25644317  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


366. J Pediatr. 2015 Jan 31. pii: S0022-3476(14)01206-2. doi:
10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.12.037. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of Formulas for Calculation of the Corrected QT Interval in Infants
and Young Children.

Phan DQ(1), Silka MJ(2), Lan YT(3), Chang RK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Los Angeles Biomedical Research Institute at
Harbor-University of California, Los Angeles Medical Center, Torrance, CA.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA. (3)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Santa 
Clara Valley Medical Center, San Jose, CA. (4)Division of Pediatric Cardiology,
Los Angeles Biomedical Research Institute at Harbor-University of California, Los
Angeles Medical Center, Torrance, CA. Electronic address: rkchang@ucla.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To compare 4 heart rate correction formulas for calculation of the
rate corrected QT (QTc) interval among infants and young children.
STUDY DESIGN: R-R and QT intervals were measured from digital electrocardiograms.
QTc were calculated with the Bazett, Fridericia, Hodges, and Framingham formulas.
QTc vs R-R graphs were plotted, and slopes of the regression lines compared.
Slopes of QTc-R-R regression lines close to zero indicate consistent QT
corrections over the range of heart rates.
RESULTS: We reviewed electrocardiograms from 702 children, with 233 (33%) <1 year
of age and 567 (81%) <2 years. The average heart rate was 122 ± 20 bpm (median
121 bpm). The slopes of the QTc-R-R regression lines for the 4 correction
formulas were -0.019 (Bazett); 0.1028 (Fridericia); -0.1241 (Hodges); and 0.2748 
(Framingham). With the Bazett formula, a QTc >460 ms was 2 SDs above the mean,
compared with "prolonged" QTc values of 414, 443, and 353 ms for the Fridericia, 
Hodges, and Framingham formulas, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The Bazett formula calculated the most consistent QTc; 460 ms is the
best threshold for prolonged QTc. The study supports continued use of the Bazett 
formula for infants and children and differs from the use of the Fridericia
correction during clinical trials of new medications.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25648293  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


367. Matrix Biol. 2015 Jan 31. pii: S0945-053X(15)00033-5. doi:
10.1016/j.matbio.2015.01.019. [Epub ahead of print]

Moving targets: Emerging roles for MMPs in Cancer Progression and Metastasis.

Shay G(1), Lynch CC(1), Fingleton B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Tumor Biology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute,
12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612, USA. (2)Dept of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, 2220 Pierce Ave, Nashville, TN 37232, USA. Electronic 
address: Barbara.fingleton@vanderbilt.edu.

Matrix metalloproteinases have long been associated with cancer. Clinical trials 
of small molecule inhibitors for this family of enzymes however, were
spectacularly unsuccessful in a variety of tumor types. Here, we discuss some of 
the newer roles that have been uncovered for MMPs in cancer that would not have
been targeted with those initial inhibitors or in the patient populations
analyzed. We also consider novel ways of using cancer-associated MMP activity for
clinical benefit.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25652204  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


368. Protein Sci. 2015 Jan 31. doi: 10.1002/pro.2645. [Epub ahead of print]

Molecular insights into the binding of coenzyme F420 to the conserved protein
Rv1155 from Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Mashalidis EH(1), Gittis AG, Tomczak A, Abell C, Barry CE 3rd, Garboczi DN.

Author information: 
(1)Tuberculosis Research Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD, USA, 20892; Department of Chemistry,
University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge, UK CB2 1EW.

Coenzyme F420 is a deazaflavin hydride carrier with a lower reduction potential
than most flavins. In Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), F420 plays an important
role in activating PA-824, an anti-tuberculosis drug currently in clinical
trials. Although F420 is important to Mtb redox metabolism, little is known about
the enzymes that bind F420 and the reactions that they catalyze. We have
identified a novel F420 -binding protein, Rv1155, which is annotated in the Mtb
genome sequence as a putative flavin mononucleotide (FMN)-binding protein. Using 
biophysical techniques, we have demonstrated that instead of binding FMN or other
flavins, Rv1155 binds coenzyme F420 . The crystal structure of the complex of
Rv1155 and F420 reveals one F420 molecule bound to each monomer of the Rv1155
dimer. Structural, biophysical, and bioinformatic analyses of the Rv1155-F420
complex provide clues about its role in the bacterium. This article is protected 
by copyright. All rights reserved.

Copyright © 2015 The Protein Society.

PMID: 25644473  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


369. Recent Pat CNS Drug Discov. 2015 Jan 31. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatment of Chronic Migraine with Intramuscular Pericranial Injections of
Onabotulinumtoxin A.

Belvís R(1), Mas N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Quiron Dexeus University Hospital, C/ Sabino Arana Nº
5-19, 08028 Barcelona, Spain. Roberto.belvis@quiron.es.

Chronic migraine is the most frequent and disabling complication of migraine. To 
date, only two drugs have been specifically analysed for the treatment of chronic
migraine, topiramate and onabotulinumtoxin A, and in the evidence-based medicine 
categories they have achieved level of evidence I and as such, a grade of
recommendation A according to current guidelines. Following the PREEMPT paradigm,
pericranial intramuscular onabotulinumtoxin A injections show a good efficacy and
safety in chronic migraine patients, both in phase III randomized clinical trials
and in a pooled data analyses. Onabotulinumtoxin A injections reduce the number
of days of headache and migraine, they reduce the consumption of triptans and
disability, and they improve the quality of life of migraine patients. For these 
reasons, onabotulinumtoxin type A is an option as valid as topiramate for the
treatment of chronic migraine.

PMID: 25643127  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


370. Rheumatol Int. 2015 Jan 31. [Epub ahead of print]

Randomized clinical trials as reflexive-interpretative process in patients with
rheumatoid arthritis: a qualitative study.

de Jorge M(1), Parra S, de la Torre-Aboki J, Herrero-Beaumont G.

Author information: 
(1)Bone and Joint Research Unit, Department of Rheumatology, IIS - Fundacion
Jimenez Diaz, Universidad Autonoma, Av. Reyes Catolicos 2, 28048, Madrid, Spain, 
mdejorge@msssi.es.

Patients in randomized clinical trials have to adapt themselves to a restricted
language to capture the necessary information to determine the safety and
efficacy of a new treatment. The aim of this study was to explore the experience 
of patients with rheumatoid arthritis after completing their participation in a
biologic therapy randomized clinical trial for a period of 3 years. A qualitative
approach was used. The information was collected using 15 semi-structured
interviews of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Data collection was guided by
the emergent analysis until no more relevant variations in the categories were
found. The data were analysed using the grounded theory method. The objective of 
the patients when entering the study was to improve their quality of life by
initiating the treatment. However, the experience changed the significance of the
illness as they acquired skills and practical knowledge related to the management
of their disease. The category "Interactional Empowerment" emerged as core
category, as it represented the participative experience in a clinical trial. The
process integrates the follow categories: "weight of systematisation", "working
together", and the significance of the experience: "the duties". Simultaneously
these categories evolved. The clinical trial monitoring activities enabled
patients to engage in a reflexive-interpretative mechanism that transformed the
emotional and symbolic significance of their disease and improved the empowerment
of the patient. A better communicative strategy with the health professionals,
the relatives of the patients, and the community was also achieved.

PMID: 25636236  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


371. Stem Cells. 2015 Jan 31. doi: 10.1002/stem.1965. [Epub ahead of print]

Pulsed Focused Ultrasound Pretreatment Improves Mesenchymal Stem Cell Efficacy in
Preventing and Rescuing Established Acute Kidney Injury In Mice.

Burks SR(1), Nguyen BA, Tebebi PA, Kim SJ, Bresler MN, Ziadloo A, Street JM, Yuen
PS, Star RA, Frank JA.

Author information: 
(1)Frank Laboratory, Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Clinical Center, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892; Imaging Sciences Training Program,
Clinical Center and National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892.

Animal studies have shown that mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) infusions improve
acute kidney injury (AKI) outcomes when administered early after
ischemic/reperfusion injury or within 24hr after cisplatin administration. These 
findings have spurred several human clinical trials to prevent AKI. However, no
specific therapy effectively treats clinically-obvious AKI or rescues renal
function once advanced injury is established. We investigated if noninvasive
image-guided pulsed focused ultrasound (pFUS) could alter the kidney
microenvironment to enhance homing of subsequently-infused MSC. To examine the
efficacy of pFUS-enhanced cell homing in disease, we targeted pFUS to kidneys to 
enhance MSC homing after cisplatin-induced AKI. We found that pFUS enhanced MSC
homing at 1 day post-cisplatin, prior to renal functional deficits, and that
enhanced homing improved outcomes of renal function, tubular cell death, and
regeneration at 5 days post-cisplatin compared to MSC alone. We then investigated
whether pFUS+MSC therapy could rescue established AKI. MSC alone at 3 days
post-cisplatin, after renal functional deficits were obvious, significantly
improved 7-day survival of animals. Survival was further improved by pFUS and
MSC. pFUS with MSC increased IL-10 production by MSC that homed to kidneys and
generated an anti-inflammatory immune cell profile in treated kidneys. This study
shows pFUS is a neoadjuvant approach to improve MSC homing to diseased organs.
pFUS with MSC better prevents AKI than MSC alone and allows rescue therapy in
established AKI, which currently has no meaningful therapeutic options. This
article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

© 2015 AlphaMed Press.

PMID: 25640064  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


372. Am J Kidney Dis. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S0272-6386(14)01538-8. doi:
10.1053/j.ajkd.2014.11.026. [Epub ahead of print]

From the 1990s to CORAL (Cardiovascular Outcomes in Renal Atherosclerotic
Lesions) Trial Results and Beyond: Does Stenting Have a Role in Ischemic
Nephropathy?

Böhlke M(1), Barcellos FC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dialysis and Transplantation Center, São Francisco de Paula University
Hospital, Catholic University of Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Electronic
address: mbohlke.sul@gmail.com. (2)Dialysis and Transplantation Center, São
Francisco de Paula University Hospital, Catholic University of Pelotas, Rio
Grande do Sul, Brazil.

The prevalence of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is high, ∼7% in
individuals older than 65 years and ∼50% in patients with diffuse arterial
disease, and it is increasingly frequent in an aging population. About 10% to 15%
of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis cases lead to the development of
resistant hypertension and/or ischemic nephropathy. The management of ischemic
nephropathy may include medical therapy and/or revascularization. In the past,
revascularization required surgical bypass or endarterectomy, accompanied by the 
morbidity and mortality associated with a major surgical procedure. During the
last few decades, less invasive endovascular procedures such as percutaneous
transluminal renal artery angioplasty with stent placement have become available.
At the same time, new antihypertensive and cardiovascular drugs have been
developed, which may preclude revascularization, at least in some cases. The
indications of each of these therapeutic options have changed over time. This
review offers a temporal perspective on the course of technical and scientific
advances and the accompanying change in clinical practice for the treatment of
ischemic nephropathy. The latest randomized clinical trials, including the CORAL 
(Cardiovascular Outcomes in Renal Atherosclerotic Lesions) trial, the largest on 
the subject, as well as a meta-analysis of these studies, have indicated that the
best approach is medical therapy alone. There is evidence that revascularization 
brings no additional benefit, at least in low-risk and stable atherosclerotic
renal artery stenosis. High-risk patients, especially those with recurrent flash 
pulmonary edema, could benefit from percutaneous transluminal renal artery
angioplasty and stent placement, but there is no definitive evidence and the
treatment choice should take into account the risks and potential benefits of the
procedure.

Copyright © 2015 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

PMID: 25649878  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


373. Ann Surg Oncol. 2015 Jan 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Surgical Safety and Oncologic Effectiveness in Robotic versus Conventional Open
Thyroidectomy in Thyroid Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Son SK(1), Kim JH, Bae JS, Lee SH.

Author information: 
(1)National Evidence-based Healthcare Collaborating Agency, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Although many experiences using the da Vinci Robot System have been
reported by several groups, there is substantial controversy over the role of the
robot in thyroidectomy. We performed a systematic review and meta-analyses in
order to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of robotic thyroidectomy (RT)
compared with open thyroidectomy (OT) in thyroid cancer.
METHODS: A literature search for the systematic review was conducted using
English databases (Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library), as well 
as domestic databases, up to June 2014.Outcomes of interest included demographic 
characteristics, adverse events and complications, and outcomes of effectiveness.
RESULTS: Fourteen publications including 3,136 cases were finally selected for
the systematic review and meta-analysis. RT was associated with an equivalent
complication rate including transient and permanent hypocalcemia, transient and
permanent recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy, bleeding, chyle leakage, seroma,
length of hospital stay, and postoperative thyroglobulin level when compared with
OT. RT also had lesser blood loss (weighted mean difference [WMD]-0.28,
p = 0.04), better cosmetic satisfaction (odds ratio 4.79, p < 0.001), and lower
level of swallowing impairment (WMD -4.17, p < 0.001) than OT. OT was in favor of
operation time (WMD 39.77, p < 0.001) and retrieved lymph nodes (WMD -0.62,
p = 0.02) compared with RT.
CONCLUSIONS: RT seems to be associated with a lesser amount of estimated blood
loss, better cosmetic satisfaction, and a low level of swallowing impairment,
while OT was associated with a shorter operation time and more retrieved lymph
nodes. Randomized clinical trials with large samples and comparative studies that
reflect long-term follow-up data are needed to validate our findings.

PMID: 25634780  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


374. Anticancer Drugs. 2015 Jan 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Vemurafenib beyond progression in a patient with metastatic melanoma: a case
report.

Grimaldi AM(1), Simeone E, Palla M, Festino L, Caracò C, Mozzillo N, Petrillo A, 
Muto P, Ascierto PA.

Author information: 
(1)aDivision of Melanoma, Cancer Immunotherapy and Innovative Therapies bDivision
of Melanoma and Skin Cancer cDepartment of Diagnostic Imaging, Radiant and
Metabolic Therapy, Division of Radiology dDivision of Radiotherapy, Istituto
Nazionale Tumori Fondazione Pascale, Naples, Italy.

The prognosis of metastatic melanoma has changed markedly in recent years because
of the advent of newer targeted therapies such as BRAF inhibitors. However, the
response to BRAF inhibitor therapy is frequently nondurable in patients with
advanced melanoma. Novel approaches are thus needed to overcome resistance to
these agents and to improve the management of advanced melanoma patients after
disease progression. Here, we present the case of a 44-year-old man diagnosed
with advanced melanoma in July 2010, harboring a BRAF mutation. Melanoma
progressed during first-line chemotherapy with dacarbazine, but showed
significant benefit after the initiation of vemurafenib on August 2011. Six
months later, the patient experienced disease progression in left-obturator
lymphadenopathy; still, anti-BRAF treatment was continued together with
stereotactic radiotherapy, and was interrupted only shortly for intestinal
occlusion secondary to melanoma metastasis of the bowel. When his conditions were
stable, after 1 month of vemurafenib treatment discontinuation, anti-BRAF therapy
was reinitiated, with a positive outcome. Vemurafenib treatment was definitively 
discontinued for disease progression in the brain, peritoneum, lymph node,
intestine, and skin in March 2013, after about 20 months from initiation, and the
patient died a few weeks later. The clinical case presented here shows that
treatment beyond progression with vemurafenib can yield a survival benefit in
melanoma patients whose disease progresses in a few sites, which can be treated
with locoregional therapies. This clinical strategy needs further validation in
prospective clinical trials.

PMID: 25622086  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


375. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S0304-419X(15)00012-8. doi:
10.1016/j.bbcan.2015.01.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Vaccination approach to anti-angiogenic treatment of cancer.

Wentink MQ(1), Huijbers EJ(1), de Gruijl TD(1), Verheul HM(1), Olsson AK(2),
Griffioen AW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Angiogenesis Laboratory, Department of Medical Oncology, VU University Medical
Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. (2)Department of Medical Biochemistry and
Microbiology, Uppsala University, Biomedical Center, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Angiogenesis Laboratory, Department of Medical Oncology, VU University Medical
Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: aw.griffioen@vumc.nl.

Improvement of patient survival by anti-angiogenic therapy has proven limited. A 
vaccination approach inducing an immune response against the tumor vasculature
combines the benefits of immunotherapy and anti-angiogenesis, and may overcome
the limitations of current anti-angiogenic drugs. Strategies to use whole
endothelial cell vaccines and DNA- or protein vaccines against key players in the
VEGF signaling axis, as well as specific markers of tumor endothelial cells, have
been tested in preclinical studies. Current clinical trials are now testing the
promise of this specific anti-cancer vaccination approach. This review will
highlight the state-of-the-art in this exciting field of cancer research.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25641676  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


376. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S1083-8791(15)00007-5. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2015.01.003. [Epub ahead of print]

csBiomarkers for Chronic Graft Versus Host Disease National Institutes of Health 
Consensus Development Project on Criteria for Clinical Trials in Chronic
Graft-Versus-Host Disease: III. The 2014 Biomarker Working Group Report.

Paczesny S(1), Hakim FT(2), Pidala J(3), Cooke K(4), Lathrop J(5), Griffith
LM(6), Hansen J(7), Jagasia M(8), Miklos D(9), Pavletic S(2), Parkman R(10),
Russek-Cohen E(11), Flowers ME(7), Lee S(7), Martin P(7), Vogelsang G(4), Walton 
M(5), Schultz KR(12).

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN. Electronic address:
sophpacz@iu.edu. (2)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD. (3)Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, 
FL. (4)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. (5)Office of Translational
Sciences, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, FDA, Silver Spring 20993, MD. 
(6)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Transplantation, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD,
USA. (7)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and
the University of Washington, Seattle, WA. (8)Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, TN. (9)Stanford BMT-Cellular Therapy Facility, Stanford
University, Stanford, CA. (10)Children's Hospital of Los Angeles, USC, Los
Angeles, CA. (11)Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Office of
Biostatistics and Epidemiology, FDA, Silver Spring 20993, MD. (12)BC Children's
Hospital, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. Electronic
address: kschultz@mail.ubc.ca.

Biology-based markers to confirm or aid in the diagnosis or prognosis of chronic 
GVHD after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) or monitor its
progression are critically needed to facilitate evaluation of new therapies.
Biomarkers have been defined as any characteristic that is objectively measured
and evaluated as an indicator of a normal biological or pathogenic process, a
pharmacologic response to a therapeutic intervention. Applications of biomarkers 
in chronic GVHD clinical trials or patient management include: a) diagnosis and
assessment of chronic GVHD disease activity, including distinguishing
irreversible damage from continued disease activity, b) prognostic risk to
develop chronic GVHD, and c) prediction of response to therapy. Sample collection
for chronic GVHD biomarkers studies should be well-documented following
established quality control guidelines for sample acquisition, processing,
preservation and testing, at intervals that are both calendar- and event-driven. 
The consistent therapeutic treatment of subjects and standardized documentation
needed to support biomarker studies are most likely to be provided in prospective
clinical trials. To date, no chronic GVHD biomarkers have been qualified for
utilization in clinical applications. Since our previous chronic GVHD Biomarkers 
Working Group report in 2005, an increasing number of chronic GVHD candidate
biomarkers are available for further investigation. This paper provides a
four-part framework for biomarker investigations: identification, verification,
qualification, and application with terminology based on Food and Drug
Administration and European Medicines Agency guidelines.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25644957  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


377. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S1083-8791(14)01387-1. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.11.678. [Epub ahead of print]

A Low Effective Dose of Interleukin-7 is Sufficient to Maintain Cord Blood T
Cells Alive without Potentiating Allo-Immune Responses.

Pascal L(1), Hivert B(2), Trauet J(3), Deberranger E(2), Dessaint JP(3),
Yakoub-Agha I(4), Labalette M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Onco-hématologie, Université Catholique de Lille, Lille, France;
EA2686, Université Lille Nord de France, UDSL Faculté de Médecine, Laboratoire
d'Immunologie HLA, CHRU de Lille, Lille, France. (2)UAM Allogreffe de CSH, CHRU
de Lille, Lille, France. (3)EA2686, Université Lille Nord de France, UDSL Faculté
de Médecine, Laboratoire d'Immunologie HLA, CHRU de Lille, Lille, France.
(4)EA2686, Université Lille Nord de France, UDSL Faculté de Médecine, Laboratoire
d'Immunologie HLA, CHRU de Lille, Lille, France; UAM Allogreffe de CSH, CHRU de
Lille, Lille, France. (5)EA2686, Université Lille Nord de France, UDSL Faculté de
Médecine, Laboratoire d'Immunologie HLA, CHRU de Lille, Lille, France. Electronic
address: myriam.labalette@chru-lille.fr.

Slow reconstitution of T cell immunity remains a critical issue after umbilical
cord blood (CB) transplantation. Although this may be a consequence of the low
cell dose, it may also reflect the propensity of naïve T cells, which predominate
in CB, to undergo apoptotic cell death. Exogenous interleukin 7 (IL-7) can
prevent apoptosis of naïve T cells, but at high concentrations, IL-7 may also
expand alloreactive T cells, thereby aggravating the risk of graft-versus-host
disease. We evaluated the survival of CB T cells from 34 healthy full-term
pregnancies, and we found wide interdonor variation, from 17.4% to 79.7%, of CB T
cells that were still alive after being rested for 4 days in culture medium
without cytokine supplementation. The viability of CB T cells was negatively
correlated to infant birth weight (Spearman's ρ = .376; P = .031) and positively 
correlated to venous CB pH (ρ = .397; P = .027); both associations were confirmed
by multivariate analysis (P = .023 and P = .005, respectively). A low
supplemental concentration (100 pg/mL) of recombinant human IL-7 was sufficient
to maintain the viability of cryopreserved/thawed CB T cells, with most (>80%)
cells remaining in a quiescent state and without significant changes in their
CD4/CD8 ratio and the proportion of CD4(+) CD31(+) PTK7(+) recent thymic
emigrants. IL-7 at 100 pg/mL did not lead to any significant enhancement of the
alloreactive response of CB T cells, as evaluated by proliferation rates
(thymidine incorporation and carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester
dilution) and interferon-gamma production (ELISPOT). This effective concentration
of IL-7 is far lower than that obtained in vivo after pharmacological
administration of the cytokine. This study suggests that administration of lower 
doses of recombinant human IL-7 than used in previous clinical trials may be
sufficient to sustain the viability of infused CB T cells and, thus, help to
accelerate naïve T cell reconstitution without potentiating their alloreactivity.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25639768  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


378. Cancer Gene Ther. 2015 Jan 30. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2014.71. [Epub ahead of print]

Manufacturing genetically modified T cells for clinical trials.

Gee AP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cell & Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas,
USA.

Compliance with Food and Drug Administration regulations relating to initiating
early phase clinical trials of new cellular therapy products often presents a
hurdle to new investigators. One of the biggest obstacles is the requirement to
manufacture the therapeutic products under current Good Manufacturing Practices-a
system that is usually poorly understood by both basic researchers and
clinicians. This article reviews the major points that must be addressed when
manufacturing genetically modified T cells for therapeutic use.Cancer Gene
Therapy advance online publication, 30 January 2015; doi:10.1038/cgt.2014.71.

PMID: 25633481  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


379. Cancer Invest. 2015 Jan 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Incidence and Risk of High-grade Stomatitis with mTOR Inhibitors in Cancer
Patients.

Shameem R(1), Lacouture M, Wu S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center , Philadelphia, PA 
, USA , 1.

Background: Inhibitors of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway
including everolimus and temsirolimus have been used extensively in cancer
patients. Their use is associated with stomatitis, an adverse event resulting in 
morbidity and treatment interruptions or discontinuation. This study was
conducted to determine the overall incidence and risk of stomatitis in cancer
patients treated with the mTOR inhibitors by a meta-analysis of randomized
controlled clinical trials (RCTs). Patients and Methods: Databases from PubMed
and abstracts presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual
meetings up to October 2013 were searched for relevant studies. Eligible studies 
included RCTs using everolimus and temsirolimus at approved doses in cancer
patients. Summary incidences, relative risks (RR), and 95% confidence intervals
(CI) were calculated using a random- or fixed-effects model depending on the
heterogeneity of the included trials. Results: A total of 11 RCTs with 4,752
patients (mTORs: 2,725, controls: 2,027) with a variety of solid tumors were
included in the analysis. The incidences of all-grade (grade 1-4) and high-grade 
stomatitis (grade 3-4) were 33.5% (95% CI: 21.9-47.6%) and 4.1% (95% CI:
2.6-6.3%), respectively. The incidence of high-grade stomatitis significantly
varied with tumor types (p = .004), and mTOR inhibitors (temsirolimus vs.
everolimus, p < .001). In comparison with controls, mTOR inhibitors significantly
increased the risk for developing all-grade stomatitis (RR: 4.04, 95% CI:
3.13-5.22, p < .001) and high-grade stomatitis (RR: 8.84, 95% CI: 4.07-19.22, p <
.001). Conclusions: The mTOR inhibitors everolimus and temsirolimus significantly
increased the risk of high-grade stomatitis in cancer patients. Efforts towards
the prevention, treatment, and identification of individuals at risk may allow
for improved quality of life and consistent dosing.

PMID: 25635371  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


380. Cancer Lett. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S0304-3835(15)00072-5. doi:
10.1016/j.canlet.2015.01.038. [Epub ahead of print]

Dietary agents for prevention and treatment of lung cancer.

Khan N(1), Mukhtar H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706, USA.
Electronic address: hmukhtar@wisc.edu.

Lung cancer is a prominent cause of cancer-associated mortality worldwide. The
main reason for high mortality due to lung cancer is attributable to the fact
that the diagnosis is generally made when it has spread beyond a curable stage
and cannot be treated surgically or with radiation therapy. Therefore, new
approaches like dietary modifications could be extremely useful in reducing lung 
cancer incidences. Several fruits and vegetables offer a variety of bioactive
compounds to afford protection against several diseases, including lung cancer. A
number of research studies involving dietary agents provide strong evidence for
their role in the prevention and treatment of lung cancer, and have identified
their molecular mechanisms of action and potential targets. In this review
article, we summarize data from in-vitro and in-vivo studies and where available,
in clinical trials, on the effects of some of the most promising dietary agents
against lung cancer.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

PMID: 25644088  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


381. Cancer Sci. 2015 Jan 30. doi: 10.1111/cas.12622. [Epub ahead of print]

A Randomized study of Low Versus Standard-Dose Chemoradiotherapy for Unresectable
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (JCOG0303).

Shinoda M(1), Ando N, Kato K, Ishikura S, Kato H, Tsubosa Y, Minashi K, Okabe H, 
Kimura Y, Tatsuyuki K, Kosugi SI, Toh Y, Nakamura KI, Fukuda H; Japan Clinical
Oncology Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Aichi Cancer Center, Nagoya, Japan.

Low-dose cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (LDPF) chemotherapy with daily radiotherapy
(RT) is used as an alternative chemoradiotherapy regimen for locally advanced
esophageal carcinoma. We evaluated whether RT plus LDPF chemotherapy had an
advantage in terms of survival and/or toxicity over RT plus standard-dose
cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (SDPF) chemotherapy in this study. This multicenter 
trial included esophageal cancer patients with clinical T4 disease and/or
unresectable regional lymph node metastasis. Patients were randomly assigned to
receive RT (2 Gy/fraction, total dose of 60 Gy) with SDPF (arm A) or LDPF (arm B)
chemotherapy. The primary endpoint was overall survival (OS). A total of 142
patients (arm A/B; 71/71) from 41 institutions were enrolled between April 2004
and September 2009. The OS hazard ratio in arm B vs arm A was 1.05 (80%
confidence interval, 0.78-1.41). There were no differences in toxicities in both 
arms. Arm B was judged as not promising for further evaluation in the phase III
setting. Thus, the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee recommended that the
study be terminated. In the updated analyses, median OS and 3-year OS were 13.1
months and 25.9%, respectively, for arm A and 14.4 months and 25.7%,
respectively, for arm B. RT plus LDPF chemotherapy did not qualify for further
evaluation as a new treatment option for patients with locally advanced
unresectable esophageal cancer. This study was registered at the UMIN Clinical
Trials Registry as UMIN000000861. This article is protected by copyright. All
rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25640628  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


382. Circ Res. 2015 Jan 30;116(3):468-479.

Autophagy in Vascular Disease.

De Meyer GR(1), Grootaert MO(2), Michiels CF(2), Kurdi A(2), Schrijvers DM(2),
Martinet W(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Laboratory of Physiopharmacology, University of Antwerp, Antwerp,
Belgium. guido.demeyer@uantwerpen.be. (2)From the Laboratory of
Physiopharmacology, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.

Autophagy is a reparative, life-sustaining process by which cytoplasmic
components are sequestered in double-membrane vesicles and degraded on fusion
with lysosomal compartments. Growing evidence reveals that basal autophagy is an 
essential in vivo process mediating proper vascular function. Moreover, autophagy
is stimulated by many stress-related stimuli in the arterial wall to protect
endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells against cell death and the initiation
of vascular disease, in particular atherosclerosis. Basal autophagy is
atheroprotective during early atherosclerosis but becomes dysfunctional in
advanced atherosclerotic plaques. Little is known about autophagy in other
vascular disorders, such as aneurysm formation, arterial aging, vascular
stiffness, and chronic venous disease, even though autophagy is often impaired.
This finding highlights the need for pharmacological interventions with compounds
that stimulate the prosurvival effects of autophagy in the vasculature. A large
number of animal studies and clinical trials have indicated that oral or
stent-based delivery of the autophagy inducer rapamycin or derivatives thereof,
collectively known as rapalogs, effectively inhibit the basic mechanisms that
control growth and destabilization of atherosclerotic plaques. Other
autophagy-inducing drugs, such as spermidine or add-on therapy with widely used
antiatherogenic compounds, including statins and metformin, are potentially
useful to prevent vascular disease with minimal adverse effects.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

PMID: 25634970  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


383. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 30;1:CD008213. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD008213.pub2.

Surgical interventions for primary congenital glaucoma.

Ghate D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Nebraska
Medical Center, 985540 Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska, USA, 68198-5540.

BACKGROUND: Primary congenital glaucoma (PCG) manifests within the first few
years of a child's life and is not associated with any other systemic or ocular
abnormalities. PCG results in considerable morbidity even in developed countries.
Several surgical techniques for treating this condition, and lowering the
intraocular pressure (IOP) associated with it, have been described.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the effectiveness and safety of different surgical
techniques for PCG.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision 
Group Trials Register) (The Cochrane Library 2014, Issue 6), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid
MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid
OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to June 2014), EMBASE (January 1980 to June 2014),
(January 1982 to June 2014), PubMed (January 1946 to June 2014), the metaRegister
of Controlled Trials (mRCT) (www.controlled-trials.com), ClinicalTrials.gov
(www.clinicaltrials.gov), the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform
(ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language
restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the
electronic databases on 23 June 2014.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included all randomized and quasi-randomized trials in
which different types of surgical interventions were compared in children under
five years of age with PCG.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological procedures
specified by The Cochrane Collaboration.
MAIN RESULTS: We included a total of six trials (four randomized and two
quasi-randomized) with 102 eyes in 61 children. Two trials were conducted in the 
USA and one trial each in Egypt, Israel, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia. All trials
included children aged younger than one year when diagnosed with PCG, and
followed them for periods ranging from six months to five years.No two trials
compared the same pair of surgical interventions, so we did not perform any
meta-analysis. One trial compared trabeculotomy versus goniotomy; a second trial 
compared combined trabeculectomy-trabeculotomy with mitomycin C versus
trabeculectomy-trabeculotomy with mitomycin C and deep sclerectomy; a third trial
compared combined trabeculotomy-trabeculectomy versus trabeculotomy; a fourth
trial compared one goniotomy versus two goniotomies; a fifth trial compared
trabeculotomy versus viscocanalostomy; and the sixth trial compared surgical
goniotomy versus neodymium-YAG laser goniotomy. For IOP change and surgical
success (defined by IOP achieved), none of the trials reported a difference
between pairs of surgical techniques. However, due to the limited sample sizes
for all trials (average of 10 children per trial), the evidence as to whether a
particular surgical technique is effective and which surgical technique is better
still remains uncertain. Adverse events, such as choroidal detachment, shallow
anterior chamber and hyphema, were reported from four trials. None of the trials 
reported quality of life or economic data.These trials were neither designed nor 
reported well overall. Two trials were quasi-randomized trials and judged to have
high risk of selection bias; four trials were at unclear or high risk for
performance bias and detection bias; and we judged one trial to have high risk of
attrition bias due to high proportions of losses to follow-up. Due to poor study 
design and reporting, the reliability and applicability of evidence remain
unclear.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: No conclusions could be drawn from the trials included in
this review due to paucity of data. More research is needed to determine which of
the many surgeries performed for PCG are effective.

PMID: 25636153  [PubMed - in process]


384. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 30;1:CD010333. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD010333.pub2.

Sound reduction management in the neonatal intensive care unit for preterm or
very low birth weight infants.

Almadhoob A(1), Ohlsson A.

Author information: 
(1)Salmaniya Medical Complex, Manama, Bahrain.

BACKGROUND: Infants in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) are subjected to
stress, including sound of high intensity. The sound environment in the NICU is
louder than most home or office environments and contains disturbing noises of
short duration and at irregular intervals. There are competing auditory signals
that frequently challenge preterm infants, staff and parents. The sound levels in
NICUs often exceed the maximum acceptable level of 45 decibels (dB), recommended 
by the American Academy of Pediatrics. Hearing impairment is diagnosed in 2% to
10% of preterm infants versus 0.1% of the general paediatric population. Noise
may cause apnoea, hypoxaemia, alternation in oxygen saturation, and increased
oxygen consumption secondary to elevated heart and respiratory rates and may,
therefore, decrease the amount of calories available for growth. Elevated levels 
of speech are needed to overcome the noisy environment in the NICU, thereby
increasing the negative impacts on staff, newborns, and their families. High
noise levels are associated with an increased rate of errors and accidents,
leading to decreased performance among staff. The aim of interventions included
in this review is to reduce sound levels to 45 dB or less. This can be achieved
by lowering the sound levels in an entire unit, treating the infant in a section 
of a NICU, in a 'private' room, or in incubators in which the sound levels are
controlled, or reducing the sound levels that reaches the individual infant by
using earmuffs or earplugs. By lowering the sound levels that reach the neonate, 
the resulting stress on the cardiovascular, respiratory, neurological, and
endocrine systems can be diminished, thereby promoting growth and reducing
adverse neonatal outcomes.
OBJECTIVES: Primary objectiveTo determine the effects of sound reduction on
growth and long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes of neonates. Secondary
objectives1. To evaluate the effects of sound reduction on short-term medical
outcomes (bronchopulmonary dysplasia, intraventricular haemorrhage,
periventricular leukomalacia, retinopathy of prematurity).2. To evaluate the
effects of sound reduction on sleep patterns at three months of age.3. To
evaluate the effects of sound reduction on staff performance.4. To evaluate the
effects of sound reduction in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) on parents'
satisfaction with the care.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
(The Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, abstracts from scientific
meetings, clinical trials registries (clinicaltrials.gov; controlled-trials.com; 
and who.int/ictrp), Pediatric Academic Societies Annual meetings 2000 to 2014
(Abstracts2View(TM)), reference lists of identified trials, and reviews to
November 2014.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Preterm infants (< 32 weeks' postmenstrual age (PMA) or <
1500 g birth weight) cared for in the resuscitation area, during transport, or
once admitted to a NICU or a stepdown unit.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We performed data collection and analyses according
to the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group.
MAIN RESULTS: One small, high quality study assessing the effects of silicone
earplugs versus no earplugs qualified for inclusion. The original inclusion
criteria in our protocol stipulated an age of < 48 hours at the time of
initiating sound reduction. We made a deviation from our protocol and included
this study in which some infants would have been > 48 hours old. There was no
significant difference in weight at 34 weeks postmenstrual age (PMA): mean
difference (MD) 111 g (95% confidence interval (CI) -151 to 374 g) (n = 23).
There was no significant difference in weight at 18 to 22 months corrected age
between the groups: MD 0.31 kg, 95% CI -1.53 to 2.16 kg (n = 14). There was a
significant difference in Mental Developmental Index (Bayley II) favouring the
silicone earplugs group at 18 to 22 months corrected age: MD 14.00, 95% CI 3.13
to 24.87 (n = 12), but not for Psychomotor Development Index (Bayley II) at 18 to
22 months corrected age: MD -2.16, 95% CI -18.44 to 14.12 (n =12).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: To date, only 34 infants have been enrolled in a randomised
controlled trial (RCT) testing the effectiveness of reducing sound levels that
reach the infants' ears in the NICU. Based on the small sample size of this
single trial, we cannot make any recommendations for clinical practice. Larger,
well designed, conducted and reported trials are needed.

PMID: 25633155  [PubMed - in process]


385. Comput Inform Nurs. 2015 Jan 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Integration of Clinical Research Documentation in Electronic Health Records.

Broach D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Author Affiliation: Indiana University Health-Methodist Research Institute,
Indianapolis.

Clinical trials of investigational drugs and devices are often conducted within
healthcare facilities concurrently with clinical care. With implementation of
electronic health records, new communication methods are required to notify
nonresearch clinicians of research participation. This article reviews clinical
research source documentation, the electronic health record and the medical
record, areas in which the research record and electronic health record overlap, 
and implications for the research nurse coordinator in documentation of the care 
of the patient/subject. Incorporation of clinical research documentation in the
electronic health record will lead to a more complete patient/subject medical
record in compliance with both research and medical records regulations. A
literature search provided little information about the inclusion of clinical
research documentation within the electronic health record. Although regulations 
and guidelines define both source documentation and the medical record,
integration of research documentation in the electronic health record is not
clearly defined. At minimum, the signed informed consent(s), investigational drug
or device usage, and research team contact information should be documented
within the electronic health record. Institutional policies should define a
standardized process for this integration in the absence federal guidance. Nurses
coordinating clinical trials are in an ideal position to define this integration.

PMID: 25636041  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


386. Curr Heart Fail Rep. 2015 Jan 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Heart Failure in Women.

Taylor AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Columbia University Medical Center, 630 W. 168th Street, PH 1-132, New York,
NY, 10032, USA, alt2127@cumc.columbia.edu.

Heart failure (HF) is increasing in incidence globally, and approximately half of
all HF patients are women. When women and men with HF are compared, there are
significant differences in disease etiology, expression, outcomes, and perhaps,
response to therapy. Hypertension rather than coronary artery disease is a more
important etiology of HF in women, and HF with preserved left ventricular
ejection fraction (HFPEF) is more common in women. Regardless of its etiology,
women have better survival and less sudden cardiac death, but poorer quality of
life with equivalent degrees of left ventricular dysfunction. Animal studies of
myocardial response to stressors resulting in heart failure corroborate sex
differences in ventricular remodeling, cellular morphology, and function. Despite
the fact that women make up nearly 50 % of HF patients, their inclusion in
randomized clinical trials has remained at about 20 %, with no trials including
women as a prespecified subgroup for statistical analysis. Thus, the evidence
base for treatment of HF in women is not robustly supported by sex-specific data.

PMID: 25633565  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


387. Curr Opin Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 30;21C:95-104. doi: 10.1016/j.coph.2014.12.014.
[Epub ahead of print]

Renal effects of soluble guanylate cyclase stimulators and activators: A review
of the preclinical evidence.

Stasch JP(1), Schlossmann J(2), Hocher B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bayer Pharma AG, Wuppertal, Germany; University Halle-Wittenberg, Germany.
Electronic address: johannes-peter.stasch@bayer.com. (2)University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany. (3)University of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany.

Direct stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) is emerging as a potential 
new approach for the treatment of renal disorders. sGC catalyzes the formation of
cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), deficiency of which is implicated in the
pathogenesis of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Therefore, new classes of drugs -
sGC stimulators and activators - are being investigated in preclinical models
under conditions where nitric oxide is deficient. In preclinical models with
different etiologies of CKD, the sGC stimulators BAY 41-2272, BAY 41-8543, BAY
60-4552, riociguat and vericiguat and the sGC activators cinaciguat, ataciguat,
BI 703704 and GSK2181236A have shown consistently renoprotective effects.
Clinical trials are required to confirm these findings in humans, and to
ascertain whether these agents could provide a future alternative to
guideline-recommended treatments.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25645316  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


388. Curr Top Med Chem. 2015 Jan 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Soft Matter Assemblies as Nanomedicine Platforms for Cancer Chemotherapy: a
Journey from Market Products towards Novel Approaches.

Jäger E, Giacomelli FC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Ciências Naturais e Humanas, Universidade Federal do ABC, Santo
André, Brazil. fernando.giacomelli@ufabc.edu.br.

The current review aims to outline the likely medical applications of
nanotechnology and the potential of the emerging field of nanomedicine.
Nanomedicine can be defined as the investigation area encompassing the design of 
diagnostics and therapeutics at the nanoscale, including nanobots,
nanobiosensors, nanoparticles and other nanodevices, for the remediation,
prevention and diagnosis of a variety of illnesses. The ultimate goal of
nanomedicine is to improve patient quality-of-life. Because nanomedicine includes
the rational design of an enormous number of nanotechnology-based products
focused on miscellaneous diseases, a variety of nanomaterials can be employed.
Therefore, this review will focus on recent advances in the manufacture of soft
matter-based nanomedicines specifically designed to improve diagnostics and
cancer chemotherapy efficacy. It will be particularly highlighted liposomes,
polymer-drug conjugates, drug-loaded block copolymer micelles and biodegradable
polymeric nanoparticles, emphasizing the current investigations and potential
novel approaches towards overcoming the remaining challenges in the field as well
as formulations that are in clinical trials and marketed products.

PMID: 25633209  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


389. Diabetes Ther. 2015 Jan 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of Treatment with Sitagliptin or Sulfonylurea in Patients with Type 2 
Diabetes Mellitus and Mild Renal Impairment: A Post Hoc Analysis of Clinical
Trials.

Ommen ES(1), Xu L, O'Neill EA, Goldstein BJ, Kaufman KD, Engel SS.

Author information: 
(1)Merck & Co., Inc., Whitehouse Station, NJ, USA, elizabeth.ommen@merck.com.

INTRODUCTION: Impaired renal function is a major complication of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (T2DM). Mild renal impairment is present in 38% of patients with T2DM
and may impact choice of antihyperglycemic agent. Sulfonylureas and dipeptidyl
peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors are commonly used to treat hyperglycemia in
patients with T2DM and renal impairment. Although in general sulfonylurea use is 
associated with an increased risk of hypoglycemia and weight gain, while DPP-4
inhibitor use is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia, and is weight
neutral, the relative efficacy and tolerability of these agents in patients with 
mild renal impairment has not been evaluated.
METHODS: In a post hoc analysis, data from 1,211 subjects with T2DM and mild
renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rates of 60 to
<90 mL/min/1.73 m(2)), who completed 25 or 30 weeks of one of three double-blind 
clinical trials comparing the DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin 100 mg/day with
sulfonylureas in titrated doses, were pooled. The analysis compared change from
baseline in glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), fasting plasma glucose (FPG), body
weight, incidence of symptomatic hypoglycemia and the percentages of subjects
meeting a composite endpoint of HbA1c decrease >0.5% without symptomatic
hypoglycemia or body weight gain between sitagliptin and sulfonylurea treatment
groups.
RESULTS: HbA1c and FPG decreased similarly with sitagliptin or sulfonylurea. A
lower incidence of hypoglycemia was observed with sitagliptin. Body weight
decreased with sitagliptin but increased with sulfonylurea. A greater percentage 
of subjects treated with sitagliptin (41.1%) than treated with sulfonylurea
(16.9%) achieved the composite endpoint of >0.5% HbA1c reduction with no
symptomatic hypoglycemia or body weight gain.
CONCLUSION: In this analysis of subjects with T2DM and mild renal impairment,
treatment with sitagliptin provided glycemic efficacy similar to sulfonylurea,
with less hypoglycemia and with body weight loss compared to body weight gain
seen with sulfonylurea. Trial Registrations: ClinicalTrials.gov #NCT00482079,
#NCT00094770, #NCT00701090.

PMID: 25633134  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


390. Eur J Endocrinol. 2015 Jan 30. pii: EJE-14-1014. [Epub ahead of print]

THERAPY OF ENDOCRINE DISEASE: Steroidogenesis enzyme inhibitors in Cushing's
syndrome.

Daniel E(1), Newell-Price J(2).

Author information: 
(1)E Daniel, Human Metabolism, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United
Kingdom. (2)J Newell-Price, Room OU142, University of Sheffield, Sheffield,
S102JF, United Kingdom j.newellprice@sheffield.ac.uk.

Steroidogenesis enzyme inhibitors are the mainstay of medical therapy in
Cushing's syndrome. Ketoconazole and metyrapone are the most commonly used
agents. With the exception of the use of mitotane in adrenocortical carcinoma,
steroidogenesis inhibitors are mainly used off-label for the management of
hypercortisolaemia. Although there is considerable experience of their use in
individual specialist centres these drugs have not been rigorously tested in
prospective clinical trials. Clinicians face uncertainties and concerns with
respect to the safety profile of these agents, and best means to monitor effect. 
We review steroidogenesis inhibitors in the management of Cushing's syndrome,
including older agents (ketoconazole, metyrapone, etomidate and mitotane) and
those currently under development (LCI699, non-racemic ketoconazole) and offer a 
practical approach for their use in clinical practice.

PMID: 25637072  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


391. Eur J Heart Fail. 2015 Jan 30. doi: 10.1002/ejhf.236. [Epub ahead of print]

Iron therapy for the treatment of iron deficiency in chronic heart failure:
intravenous or oral?

McDonagh T(1), Macdougall IC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, King's College Hospital, London, UK.

This article considers the use and modality of iron therapy to treat iron
deficiency in patients with heart failure, an aspect of care which has received
relatively little attention compared with the wider topic of anaemia management. 
Iron deficiency affects up to 50% of heart failure patients, and is associated
with poor quality of life, impaired exercise tolerance, and mortality independent
of haematopoietic effects in this patient population. The European Society of
Cardiology Guidelines for heart failure 2012 recommend a diagnostic work-up for
iron deficiency in patients with suspected heart failure. Iron absorption from
oral iron preparations is generally poor, with slow and often inefficient iron
repletion; moreover, up to 60% of patients experience gastrointestinal side
effects. These problems may be exacerbated in heart failure due to decreased
gastrointestinal absorption and poor compliance due to pill burden. Evidence for 
clinical benefits using oral iron is lacking. I.v. iron sucrose has consistently 
been shown to improve exercise capacity, cardiac function, symptom severity, and 
quality of life. Similar findings were observed recently for i.v. ferric
carboxymaltose in patients with systolic heart failure and impaired LVEF in the
double-blind, placebo-controlled FAIR-HF and CONFIRM-HF trials. I.v. iron therapy
may be better tolerated than oral iron, although confirmation in longer clinical 
trials is awaited. Routine diagnosis and management of iron deficiency in
patients with symptomatic heart failure regardless of anaemia status is
advisable, and, based on current evidence, prompt intervention using i.v. iron
therapy should now be considered.

© 2015 The Authors. European Journal of Heart Failure published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Society of Cardiology.

PMID: 25639592  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


392. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S0014-2999(15)00069-2. doi:
10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.01.036. [Epub ahead of print]

Pre-treatment of a single high-dose of atorvastatin provided cardioprotection in 
different ischaemia/reperfusion models via activating mitochondrial KATP channel.

Zhao Z(1), Cui W(2), Zhang H(3), Gao H(3), Li X(4), Wang Y(5), Hu H(5), Li B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, China; Department of Respiration, The Third Hospital of Hebei
Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China. (2)Department of Cardiology, The Second 
Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China. Electronic address:
weicuicn@126.com. (3)Department of Pharmacology, Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, China. (4)Department of Anesthesiology, the Second Hospital of
Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China. (5)Department of Cardiology, The
Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China. (6)The National
Institute for The Control of Pharmaceutical and Biological Products, Beijing,
China.

A number of clinical trials have shown that a high loading dose of atorvastatin
(Ator) within 24h before percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) exerts
protective effects on the cardiovascular system. However, the potential
mechanisms regarding this rapid benefit of Ator remain elusive. Our study
introduced three different ischaemia/reperfusion (I/R) models: I/R in vivo, I/R
in vitro and oxygen-glucose deprivation/recovery (OGD/R) in primary neonatal rat 
cardiac myocytes to observe the protective effect of a single loading dose of
Ator pre-treatment and further to explore the potential mechanisms of this
protective effect with confocal laser scanning microscopy, flow cytometry,
biochemical and morphology methods. We found that the pre-treatment of high-dose 
Ator decreased the cardiac injury and maintained the integrity of mitochondria in
all three of the I/R models, which was similar to ischaemic pre-conditioning
(IPC). We used the mitochondrial KATP channels (mitoKATP channels) inhibitor
5-hydroxydecanoate (5-HD) and the mitochondrial permeability transition pore
(mPTP) opener lonidamine (LND) to analyse the underlying mechanisms. The results 
showed that the pre-treatment of Ator significantly decreased I/R-induced injury,
and maintained the functional integrity of mitochondria through alleviating
Ca(2+) overload, reactive oxygen species burst, inhibiting the opening of mPTP
and preventing mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) depolarisation. The present
results demonstrated that a single dose of Ator might protect the myocardium from
I/R-induced injury by inhibiting the mPTP opening through activating the mitoKATP
channels. This result may contribute toward the development of novel strategies
for clinical cardioprotection against I/R injury.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25641746  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


393. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 Jan 30:1-10. [Epub ahead of print]

Potential use of lurasidone for the treatment of bipolar psychosis.

Carta MG(1), Moro MF, Nardi AE, Calabrese JR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cagliari, Department of Public Health, Clinical and Molecular
Medicine , Cagliari , Italy mgcarta@tiscali.it.

Introduction: Second-generation antipsychotics (SGA) are new treatment options
for bipolar disorders (BDs). Lurasidone is one such SGA, which is currently
approved as a monotherapy for bipolar I depression (BPID) and as an add-on
therapy for acute schizophrenia. Areas covered: In this drug evaluation, the
authors illustrate the pharmacological profile of lurasidone and review its
development history. The aim of this review is to evaluate whether this compound 
could be used in psychotic BDs. Expert opinion: The pharmacological profile of
lurasidone, its action on receptors, its role in neurogenesis and its cognitive
performance suggests a potential use in psychotic episodes of BDs and mania. This
hypothesis is also supported by the clinical observations from case reports
concerning resolutions of BPID with psychotic features, where psychotic episodes 
were diagnosed as schizophrenia and reclassified as BDs after the patient was
able to reconstruct his/her clinical history. The use of lurasidone may have the 
advantage of a low side-effect profile and a possible efficacy in preventing the 
impairment of cognitive performance. However, randomized clinical trials
assessing the efficacy of lurasidone in the treatment of manic episodes as well
as manic episodes with psychotic components are still needed.

PMID: 25633339  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


394. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2015 Jan 30:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Novel molecular targets for urothelial carcinoma.

Faltas BM(1), Karir BS, Tagawa ST, Rosenberg JE.

Author information: 
(1)Weill Cornell Medical College, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology,
Department of Medicine , New York, NY , USA beshoyso@yahoo.com.

Introduction: Urothelial cancer (UC) remains a significant public health problem,
with no new second-line agents FDA-approved in the US. Next-generation sequencing
technologies are starting to generate a molecular landscape of UC thus revealing 
novel molecular targets. Areas covered: In this review, the authors provide a
detailed review of novel molecular targets in UC based on published genomic
analyses of urothelial tumors. We provide an overview of each molecular target
with a brief discussion of therapeutic strategies and clinical trials targeting
each pathway. Expert opinion: UC continues to be a lethal disease with no
FDA-approved effective second-line therapies. Platinum resistance continues to be
a daunting clinical problem. Next-generation sequencing methods have led to the
elucidation of numerous molecular targets in UC, including PI3K, to the
elucidation of numerous molecular targets in UC, including PI3K, ERBB2 and FGFR3,
among many others. These molecular perturbations can be exploited therapeutically
with targeted therapies in patient populations enriched for these molecular
alterations, thus paving the way for precision medicine in UC management.

PMID: 25633079  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


395. J Appl Behav Anal. 2015 Jan 30. doi: 10.1002/jaba.185. [Epub ahead of print]

The effects of fixed versus escalating reinforcement schedules on smoking
abstinence.

Romanowich P(1), Lamb RJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas at San Antonio.

Studies indicate that when abstinence is initiated, escalating reinforcement
schedules maintain continuous abstinence longer than fixed reinforcement
schedules. However, these studies were conducted for shorter durations than most 
clinical trials and also resulted in larger reinforcer value for escalating
participants during the 1st week of the experiment. We tested whether escalating 
reinforcement schedules maintained abstinence longer than fixed reinforcement
schedules in a 12-week clinical trial. Smokers (146) were randomized to an
escalating reinforcement schedule, a fixed reinforcement schedule, or a control
condition. Escalating reinforcement participants received $5.00 for their first
breath carbon monoxide (CO) sample <3 ppm, with a $0.50 increase for each
consecutive sample. Fixed reinforcement participants received $19.75 for each
breath CO sample <3 ppm. Control participants received payments only for
delivering a breath CO sample. Similar proportions of escalating and fixed
reinforcement participants met the breath CO criterion at least once. Escalating 
reinforcement participants maintained criterion breath CO levels longer than
fixed reinforcement and control participants. Similar to previous short-term
studies, escalating reinforcement schedules maintained longer durations of
abstinence than fixed reinforcement schedules during a clinical trial.

© Society for the Experimental Analysis of Behavior.

PMID: 25640764  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


396. J Clin Periodontol. 2015 Jan 30. doi: 10.1111/jcpe.12373. [Epub ahead of print]

Impact of extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) on tooth mobility in adult
orthodontic patients: a randomized single-center placebo-controlled clinical
trial.

Falkensammer F(1), Rausch-Fan X, Schaden W, Kivaranovic D, Freudenthaler J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthodontics, University Clinic of Dentistry, Medical University
of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

AIM: This RCT investigated the effect of non-invasive extracorporeal shockwaves
on tooth mobility in orthodontic patients after active treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seventy-two adult patients were included in the study.
Immediately after active orthodontic treatment, patients were assigned to a
treatment or a placebo group based on block randomization. The orthodontic
patients were required to be otherwise healthy. The region of interest was the
anterior portion of the mandible. The treatment group received a single shockwave
treatment with 1000 impulses while the placebo group was treated with an acoustic
sham. Tooth mobility was evaluated over a period of six months using a Periotest 
and manual testing. Pocket probing depths, bleeding on probing, and the
irregularity index were also assessed.
RESULTS: Tooth mobility reduced significantly over six months in both groups, but
shockwaves achieved significantly more rapid reduction on manual testing. Probing
depth was significantly reduced while the irregularity index remained stable.
Bleeding on probing was significantly reduced in the treatment group. No
anti-inflammatory effect could be derived due to possible initial group
differences.
CONCLUSIONS: The mobility of teeth aligned by orthodontic treatment reduces over 
time. Shockwave treatment appeared to reduce tooth mobility more rapidly. The
protocol was registered at Clinical Trials. gov of the U.S. National Institutes
of Health. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25640577  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


397. J Clin Periodontol. 2015 Jan 30. doi: 10.1111/jcpe.12371. [Epub ahead of print]

Hyaluronan in Non-Surgical and Surgical Periodontal Therapy. A Systematic Review.

Bertl K(1), Bruckmann C, Isberg PE, Klinge B, Gotfredsen K, Stavropoulos A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Faculty of Odontology, University of Malmö,
Sweden; Division of Oral Surgery, Bernhard Gottlieb School of Dentistry, Medical 
University of Vienna, Austria.

AIM: To evaluate the effect of hyaluronan (HY) application as monotherapy or as
adjunct to non-surgical and/or surgical periodontal therapy.
METHODS: Literature search was performed according to PRISMA guidelines with the 
following main eligibility criteria: (a) English or German language; (b)
preclinical in-vivo or human controlled trials; (c) effect size of HY evaluated
histologically or clinically.
RESULTS: Two preclinical in-vivo studies on surgical treatment and 12 clinical
trials on non-surgical and/or surgical treatment were included. Most of the
studies were highly heterogeneous, regarding with HY product used and application
mode, and of high risk of bias, thus not allowing meta-analysis. The majority of 
clinical studies described a beneficial, occasionally statistically significant, 
effect of HY on bleeding on probing (BoP) and pocket depth (PD) reduction
(2.28-19.5% and 0.2-0.9mm, respectively), comparing to controls; no adverse
effects were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: HY application as adjunct to non-surgical and surgical periodontal
treatment seems to have a beneficial, generally moderate, effect on surrogate
outcome variables of periodontal inflammation, i.e., BoP and residual PD, and
appears to be safe. The large heterogeneity of included studies, does not allow
recommendations on the mode of application or effect size of HY as adjunct to
non-surgical and surgical periodontal treatment. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25640222  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


398. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S0378-8741(15)00045-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2015.01.030. [Epub ahead of print]

Reporting effectiveness of an extract of three traditional Cretan herbs on upper 
respiratory tract infection: Results from a double-blind randomized controlled
trial.

Duijker G(1), Bertsias A(2), Symvoulakis EK(3), Moschandreas J(4), Malliaraki
N(5), Derdas SP(6), Tsikalas GK(7), Katerinopoulos HE(8), Pirintsos SA(9),
Sourvinos G(10), Castanas E(11), Lionis C(12).

Author information: 
(1)Clinic of Social and Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Crete,
PO Box 2208, Heraklion 71003, Greece. Electronic address: gduyker@hotmail.com.
(2)Clinic of Social and Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Crete,
PO Box 2208, Heraklion 71003, Greece. Electronic address:
antonisbertsias@yahoo.gr. (3)Clinic of Social and Family Medicine, School of
Medicine, University of Crete, PO Box 2208, Heraklion 71003, Greece. Electronic
address: symvouman@yahoo.com. (4)Department of Social Medicine, School of
Medicine, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece. Electronic address:
j.moschandreas@med.uoc.gr. (5)Department of Clinical Chemistry-Biochemistry,
School of Medicine, University of Crete, and University Hospital, Heraklion,
Greece. Electronic address: nikimall@me.com. (6)Laboratory of Clinical Virology, 
School of Medicine, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece. Electronic address:
derdas@med.uoc.gr. (7)Department of Chemistry, School of Sciences and Technology,
University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece. Electronic address:
gtsikalas@chemistry.uoc.gr. (8)Department of Chemistry, School of Sciences and
Technology, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece. Electronic address:
kater@chemistry.uoc.gr. (9)Department of Biology, School of Sciences and
Technology, University of Crete, Heraklion, Greece; Botanical Garden, University 
of Crete, Rethymnon, Greece. Electronic address: pirintsos@biology.uoc.gr.
(10)Laboratory of Clinical Virology, School of Medicine, University of Crete,
Heraklion, Greece. Electronic address: sourvino@med.uoc.gr. (11)Laboratory of
Experimental Endocrinology, School of Medicine, University of Crete, Heraklion,
Greece. Electronic address: castanas@med.uoc.gr. (12)Clinic of Social and Family 
Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Crete, PO Box 2208, Heraklion 71003, 
Greece. Electronic address: lionis@galinos.med.uoc.gr.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Observations from the island of Crete, Greece
suggest that infusions of traditional Cretan aromatic plants, well known for
their ethnopharmacological use in Eastern Mediterranean region and Near East,
could be effective in the prevention and treatment of upper respiratory tract
infections, including viral-induced infections. The aim of this study was to
report the effectiveness of an essential-oil extract of three Cretan aromatic
plants in the treatment of cases with an upper respiratory tract infection.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A double blind randomized controlled trial was implemented
between October 2013 and February 2014. An essential-oil extract of Cretan
aromatic plants in olive oil (total volume of 15ml of essential oil per litre of 
olive oil) was administered as 0.5ml soft gel capsules, twice a day, for 7 days. 
Placebo treatment was 0.5ml olive oil in soft gel capsules. Eligible patients
were those presenting for clinical examination in the selected setting with signs
and symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection that had begun within the
previous 24h. Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) was used for the
detection of respiratory viruses. The primary outcome was the severity and
duration of symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection, assessed using the
Wisconsin Upper Respiratory System Survey (WURSS-21) questionnaire. A secondary
outcome of interest was change in C-reactive protein (CRP) status.
RESULTS: One hundred and five patients completed the study: 51 in the placebo
group, and 54 in the intervention (treated) group. Baseline characteristics were 
similar in the two groups. No statistically significant differences were found in
symptom duration or severity between the two groups, although small clinically
favorable effects were observed. When the analysis was restricted to subjects
with a laboratory-documented viral infection, the percentage of patients with
cessation of symptoms after 6 days of treatment was 91% in the intervention group
and 70% in the control group (p=0.089). At baseline, one third of the patients in
each group had elevated CRP levels. At follow-up, the respective proportions were
0% in the intervention group and 15% in the placebo group (p=0.121). The data
were also in a favorable direction when 50% and 80% symptom reduction points were
considered for specific virus types.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with placebo the essential-oil extract of three Cretan
aromatic plants provided no detectable statistically significant benefit or harm 
in the patients with upper respiratory illness, although descriptive differences 
were identified in favorable direction mainly in the virus-positive population.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

PMID: 25645191  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


399. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S0378-8741(15)00042-2. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2015.01.027. [Epub ahead of print]

The genus Carpesium: A review of its ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry and
pharmacology.

Zhang JP(1), Wang GW(2), Tian XH(1), Yang YX(1), Liu QX(1), Chen LP(1), Li HL(3),
Zhang WD(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical University, 325 Guo-He Road,
Shanghai 200433, PR China. (2)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
Shanghai 200030, China. (3)School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical
University, 325 Guo-He Road, Shanghai 200433, PR China. Electronic address:
faranli@hotmail.com. (4)School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical University,
325 Guo-He Road, Shanghai 200433, PR China; School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao
Tong University, Shanghai 200030, China.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The plants in the genus Carpesium, which grow
naturally in Asia and Europe, have long been used in traditional Chinese, Korean 
and Japanese medicines. The antipyretic, antimalarial, haemostatic,
anti-inflammatory and detoxifying properties of their extracts enabled their use 
in the treatment of several diseases, such as fevers, colds, contusions,
diarrhoea, mastitis, mumps, hepatitis, malaria, etc. This review summarises the
state-of-the-art and comprehensive information surrounding its use as traditional
medicine, phytochemistry, pharmacology, and toxicology to reveal the potential
therapeutic effects of Carpesium plants and to establish a solid foundation for
directing future research.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The extensive reading and investigation were actualised by
systematically searching the scientific literatures including Chinese, Korean and
Japanese herbal classics, library catalogs and scientific databases (PubMed,
Scopus, SciFinder and the Web of Science), were systematically searched for
topics related to factors like the chemical constituents, pharmacognostic
research and pharmacological effects of the Carpesium species.
RESULTS: Carpesium plants have been studied extensively as traditional folk
medicines in China, Korea and Japan all the time. In past, phytochemical research
was the focal point of this genus, and the recent studies of the members of this 
genus have been focused on the pharmacological activity and potential therapeutic
applications of these plants. The research performed revealed that 143 compounds 
including sesquiterpenoid lactone monomers, sesquiterpenoid lactone dimers,
monoterpenes, diterpenoids, phenolic compounds, and several other type of
compounds, were isolated and identified within this genus in recent years, and
certain of these constituents had demonstrated to possess anti-inflammatory,
anti-tumor, anti-plasmodial, anti-oxidant, anti-fungal and anti-bacterial
effects.
CONCLUSIONS: This review shows that approximately 50 active compounds possess
therapeutic potential during the treatment of cancer, inflammatory, parasitosis, 
etc. However, apart from those bioactive molecules, a considerable part of
compounds, including a lot of sesquiterpenes, and several other type of compounds
that have been previously isolated but have not been tested biologically need to 
be further tested. Therefore, more pharmacological experiments should be focused 
on these untested chemical constituents. Additionally, another issue concerns
that most pharmacological studies were only performed in vitro-based experiments,
so additional in vivo tests in animal models are required to estimate their side 
effects for the safety approval of therapeutic applications. Finally, further
studies through well controlled, double-blind clinical trials are required to
re-evaluate their efficacious and possible side effects, and more pharmacological
mechanisms on main active compounds will also be needed for illuminating
correlations between ehnopharmacology and pharmacology in future.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

PMID: 25639815  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


400. J Evid Based Complementary Altern Med. 2015 Jan 30. pii: 2156587214568668. [Epub 
ahead of print]

A Double-Blind Randomized Placebo-Controlled Feasibility Study Evaluating
Individualized Homeopathy in Managing Pain of Knee Osteoarthritis.

Koley M(1), Saha S(2), Ghosh S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Unit (Homeopathy), Siliguri, under Central Council for
Research in Homeopathy, Government of India, Gokhel Road, Arabindapally,
Siliguri, Darjeeling, West Bengal, India dr.mkoley@gmail.com. (2)Clinical
Research Unit (Homeopathy), Siliguri, under Central Council for Research in
Homeopathy, Government of India, Gokhel Road, Arabindapally, Siliguri,
Darjeeling, West Bengal, India. (3)Department of Pathology and Microbiology,
Mahesh Bhattacharyya Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Government of West
Bengal, Howrah, West Bengal, India.

Few homeopathic complexes seemed to produce significant effects in
osteoarthritis; still, individualized homeopathy remained untested. We evaluated 
the feasibility of conducting an efficacy trial of individualized homeopathy in
osteoarthritis. A prospective, parallel-arm, double-blind, randomized,
placebo-controlled pilot study was conducted from January to October 2014
involving 60 patients (homeopathy, n = 30; placebo, n = 30) who were suffering
from acute painful episodes of knee osteoarthritis and visiting the outpatient
clinic of Mahesh Bhattacharyya Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital, West
Bengal, India. Statistically significant reduction was achieved in 3 visual
analog scales (measuring pain, stiffness, and loss of function) and
Osteoarthritis Research Society International scores in both groups over 2 weeks 
(P < .05); however, group differences were not significant (P > .05). Overall,
homeopathy did not appear to be superior to placebo; still, further rigorous
evaluation in this design involving a larger sample size seems feasible in
future. Trial registration: Clinical Trials Registry, India
(CTRI/2014/05/004589).

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25636410  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


401. Lancet. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S0140-6736(14)62449-1. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62449-1. [Epub ahead of print]

Oseltamivir treatment for influenza in adults: a meta-analysis of randomised
controlled trials.

Dobson J(1), Whitley RJ(2), Pocock S(1), Monto AS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Statistics, London School of Hygiene & Tropical
Medicine, London, UK. (2)Department of Pediatrics, Microbiology, Medicine and
Neurosurgery, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan School of Public Health,
MI, USA. Electronic address: asmonto@umich.edu.

BACKGROUND: Despite widespread use, questions remain about the efficacy of
oseltamivir in the treatment of influenza. We aimed to do an individual patient
data meta-analysis for all clinical trials comparing oseltamivir with placebo for
treatment of seasonal influenza in adults regarding symptom alleviation,
complications, and safety.
METHODS: We included all published and unpublished Roche-sponsored randomised
placebo-controlled, double-blind trials of 75 mg twice a day oseltamivir in
adults. Trials of oseltamivir for treatment of naturally occurring influenza-like
illness in adults reporting at least one of the study outcomes were eligible. We 
also searched Medline, PubMed, Embase, the Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials, and the ClinicalTrials.gov trials register for other relevant 
trials published before Jan 1, 2014 (search last updated on Nov 27, 2014). We
analysed intention-to-treat infected, intention-to-treat, and safety populations.
The primary outcome was time to alleviation of all symptoms analysed with
accelerated failure time methods. We used risk ratios and Mantel-Haenszel methods
to work out complications, admittances to hospital, and safety outcomes.
FINDINGS: We included data from nine trials including 4328 patients. In the
intention-to-treat infected population, we noted a 21% shorter time to
alleviation of all symptoms for oseltamivir versus placebo recipients (time ratio
0·79, 95% CI 0·74-0·85; p<0·0001). The median times to alleviation were 97·5 h
for oseltamivir and 122·7 h for placebo groups (difference -25·2 h, 95% CI -36·2 
to -16·0). For the intention-to-treat population, the estimated treatment effect 
was attenuated (time ratio 0·85) but remained highly significant (median
difference -17·8 h). In the intention-to-treat infected population, we noted
fewer lower respiratory tract complications requiring antibiotics more than 48 h 
after randomisation (risk ratio [RR] 0·56, 95% CI 0·42-0·75; p=0·0001; 4·9%
oseltamivir vs 8·7% placebo, risk difference -3·8%, 95% CI -5·0 to -2·2) and also
fewer admittances to hospital for any cause (RR 0·37, 95% CI 0·17-0·81; p=0·013; 
0·6% oseltamivir, 1·7% placebo, risk difference -1·1%, 95% CI -1·4 to -0·3).
Regarding safety, oseltamivir increased the risk of nausea (RR 1·60, 95% CI
1·29-1·99; p<0·0001; 9·9% oseltamivir vs 6·2% placebo, risk difference 3·7%, 95% 
CI 1·8-6·1) and vomiting (RR 2·43, 95% CI 1·83-3·23; p<0·0001; 8·0% oseltamivir
vs 3·3% placebo, risk difference 4·7%, 95% CI 2·7-7·3). We recorded no effect on 
neurological or psychiatric disorders or serious adverse events.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings show that oseltamivir in adults with influenza
accelerates time to clinical symptom alleviation, reduces risk of lower
respiratory tract complications, and admittance to hospital, but increases the
occurrence of nausea and vomiting.
FUNDING: Multiparty Group for Advice on Science (MUGAS) foundation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25640810  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


402. Mol Cancer Ther. 2015 Jan 30. pii: molcanther.0696.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

IKKβ regulates VEGF expression and is a potential therapeutic target for ovarian 
cancer as an anti-angiogenic treatment.

Kinose Y(1), Sawada K(2), Makino H(3), Ogura T(4), Mizuno T(3), Suzuki N(3),
Fujikawa T(5), Morii E(6), Nakamura K(1), Sawada I(1), Toda A(1), Hashimoto K(7),
Isobe A(7), Mabuchi S(1), Ohta T(8), Itai A(9), Morishige KI(10), Kurachi H(11), 
Kimura T(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osaka University Graduate School of
Medicine. (2)Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osaka University Graduate School of
Medicine daasawada@gyne.med.osaka-u.ac.jp. (3)Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Gifu university Graduate School of Medicine. (4)OB GYN, Gifu
University Graduate School of Medicine. (5)Drug Discovery Strategy Center, IMMD. 
Inc. (6)Pathology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University. (7)Obstetrics
and Gynecology, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine. (8)Department of
obstetrics and Gynecology, Yamagata university. (9)IMMD. Inc. (10)Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine.
(11)Yamagata University.

The prolongation of progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with advanced
ovarian cancer by anti-angiogenic therapy has been shown in several clinical
trials. However, although an anti-VEGF antibody (bevacizumab) is the only option 
currently available, its efficacy is limited and it is not cost-effective for use
in all patients. Therefore, the development of a novel anti-angiogenic drug,
especially composed of small molecule compounds, could be a powerful armament for
ovarian cancer treatment. Since NF-κB signaling has the potential to regulate
VEGF expression, we determined to identify whether VEGF expression is associated 
with NF-κB activation and to investigate the possibility of a novel IKKβ
inhibitor, IMD-0354 (IMMD Inc. Tokyo, Japan), as an anti-angiogenic drug. Tissue 
microarrays from 94 ovarian cancer tissues were constructed and
immunohistochemical analyses performed. We revealed that IKK phosphorylation is
an independent prognostic factor (PFS; 26.1 vs. 49.8 months, P=0.011), and is
positively correlated with high VEGF expression. In in vitro analyses, IMD-0354
robustly inhibited adhesive and invasive activities of ovarian cancer cells
without impairing cell viabilities. IMD-0354 significantly suppressed VEGF
production from cancer cells, which led to the inhibition of angiogenesis. In a
xenograft model, the treatment of IMD-0354 significantly inhibited peritoneal
dissemination with a marked reduction of intratumoral blood vessel formation
followed by the inhibition of VEGF expression from cancer cells. IMD-0354 is a
stable small molecule drug and has already been administered safely to humans in 
other trials. Anti-angiogenic therapy targeting IKKβ is a potential future option
to treat ovarian cancer.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25637316  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


403. Mol Pharm. 2015 Jan 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Design, Synthesis, and Evaluation of Linker-Duocarmycin Payloads: Towards
Selection of HER2-Targeting Antibody-Drug Conjugate SYD985.

Elgersma R, Coumans R, Huijbregts T, Menge W, Joosten J, Spijker H, de Groot V,
van der Lee M, Ubink R, van den Dobbelsteen D, Egging D, Dokter W, Verheijden G, 
Lemmens J, Timmers M, Beusker P.

Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) that are currently on the market or in clinical
trials are predominantly based on two drug classes: auristatins and
maytansinoids. Both are tubulin binders and block the cell in its progression
through mitosis. We set out to develop a new class of linker-drugs based on
duocarmycins, potent DNA-alkylating agents that are composed of a DNA-alkylating 
and a DNA-binding moiety and that bind into the minor groove of DNA. Linker-drugs
were evaluated as ADCs by conjugation to the anti-HER2 antibody trastuzumab via
reduced interchain disulfides. Duocarmycin 3b, bearing an
imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-based DNA-binding unit, was selected as the drug moiety,
notably because of its rapid degradation in plasma. The drug was incorporated
into the linker-drugs in its inactive prodrug form, seco-duocarmycin 3a. Linker
attachment to the hydroxyl group in the DNA-alkylating moiety was favored over
linking to the DNA-binding moiety, as the first approach gave more consistent
results for in vitro cytotoxicity and generated ADCs with excellent human plasma 
stability. Linker-drug 2 was eventually selected based on the properties of the
corresponding trastuzumab conjugate, SYD983, which had an average
drug-to-antibody ratio (DAR) of about 2. SYD983 showed subnanomolar potencies
against multiple human cancer cell lines, was highly efficacious in a BT-474
xenograft model, and had a long half-life in cynomolgus monkeys, in line with
high stability in monkey and human plasma. Studies comparing ADCs with a
different average DAR showed that a higher average DAR leads to increased
efficacy, but also to somewhat less favorable physicochemical and toxicological
properties. Fractionation of SYD983 with hydrophobic interaction chromatography
resulted in SYD985, consisting of about 95% DAR2 and DAR4 species in an
approximate 2:1 ratio and having an average DAR of about 2.8. SYD985 combines
several favorable properties from the unfractionated ADCs with an improved
homogeneity. It was selected for further development and recently entered
clinical Phase I evaluation.

PMID: 25635711  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


404. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2015 Jan 30;14(2):130-46. doi: 10.1038/nrd4504.

The history and future of targeting cyclin-dependent kinases in cancer therapy.

Asghar U(1), Witkiewicz AK(2), Turner NC(3), Knudsen ES(2).

Author information: 
(1)Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre, Chester Beatty Laboratories,
Institute of Cancer Research, London, SW3 6JB, UK. (2)Simmons Cancer Center and
Department of Pathology, University of Texas Southwestern, Dallas, USA.
(3)Institute of Cancer Research and Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust Breast
Cancer Unit, London, SW3 6JJ, UK.

Cancer represents a pathological manifestation of uncontrolled cell division;
therefore, it has long been anticipated that our understanding of the basic
principles of cell cycle control would result in effective cancer therapies. In
particular, cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) that promote transition through the
cell cycle were expected to be key therapeutic targets because many tumorigenic
events ultimately drive proliferation by impinging on CDK4 or CDK6 complexes in
the G1 phase of the cell cycle. Moreover, perturbations in chromosomal stability 
and aspects of S phase and G2/M control mediated by CDK2 and CDK1 are pivotal
tumorigenic events. Translating this knowledge into successful clinical
development of CDK inhibitors has historically been challenging, and numerous CDK
inhibitors have demonstrated disappointing results in clinical trials. Here, we
review the biology of CDKs, the rationale for therapeutically targeting discrete 
kinase complexes and historical clinical results of CDK inhibitors. We also
discuss how CDK inhibitors with high selectivity (particularly for both CDK4 and 
CDK6), in combination with patient stratification, have resulted in more
substantial clinical activity.

PMID: 25633797  [PubMed - in process]


405. Pulm Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Jan 30. pii: S1094-5539(15)00007-3. doi:
10.1016/j.pupt.2015.01.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Omalizumab for severe allergic asthma in clinical trials and real-life studies:
What we know and what we should address.

Caminati M(1), Senna G(2), Guerriero M(3), Dama AR(4), Chieco-Bianchi F(5),
Stefanizzi G(6), Montagni M(7), Ridolo E(8).

Author information: 
(1)Allergy Unit, Verona University and General Hospital, Verona, Italy.
Electronic address: ma.caminati@gmail.com. (2)Allergy Unit, Verona University and
General Hospital, Verona, Italy. Electronic address:
gianenrico.senna@ospedaleuniverona.it. (3)Department of Computer Science,
University of Verona, Verona, Italy. Electronic address:
massimo.guerriero@univr.it. (4)Allergy Unit, Verona University and General
Hospital, Verona, Italy. Electronic address: annarita.dama@ospedaleuniverona.it. 
(5)Respiratory Pathophysiology Division, University-City Hospital of Padua,
Padua, Italy. Electronic address: fulvia.chiecobianchi@gmail.com. (6)Allergy
Unit, Verona University and General Hospital, Verona, Italy. Electronic address: 
giorgia.stefanizzi@libero.it. (7)University of Parma, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, Parma, Italy. Electronic address: marcello.m1@hotmail.it. 
(8)University of Parma, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Parma, 
Italy. Electronic address: erminia.ridolo@unipr.it.

Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) are the gold standard for the assessment of any
therapeutic intervention. Real-life (R-L) studies are needed to verify the
provided results beyond the experimental setting. This review aims at comparing
RCTs and R-L studies on omalizumab in adult severe allergic asthma, in order to
highlight the concurring results and the discordant/missing data. The results of 
a selective literature research, including "omalizumab, controlled studies,
randomized trial, real-life studies" as key words are discussed. Though some
similarities between RCTs and R-L studies strengthen omalizumab efficacy and
safety outcomes, significant differences concerning study population features,
follow-up duration, local adverse events and drop-out rate for treatment
inefficacy emerge between the two study categories. Furthermore the comparative
analysis between RCTs and R-L studies highlights the need for further research,
concerning in particular long-term effects of omalizumab and its impact on asthma
comorbidities.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25640019  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


406. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan 30:1-8. [Epub ahead of print]

Use of a third anti-TNF after failure of two previous anti-TNFs in patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease: is it worth it?

Gisbert JP(1), Chaparro M.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa and Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IP) , Madrid , Spain.

Abstract Background. Some patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) never
respond or lose their response to a second anti-TNF. Aim. To review the efficacy 
and safety of a third anti-TNF after failure of two previous anti-TNFs. Methods. 
Bibliographical searches in PubMed for studies evaluating infliximab, adalimumab,
or certolizumab as the third anti-TNF in IBD patients whose two previous anti-TNF
treatments had failed. Results. Two retrospective studies with a small sample
size and limited follow up evaluated the effectiveness of a third anti-TNF
patients whose two previous anti-TNFs had failed. The arguments for this
switching strategy are as follows: a)favorable-albeit limited-efficacy (in the
study by Allez et al., clinical response was observed in 51% of patients at week 
20; and in the study by de Silva et al., over 50% of patients remained on the
third anti-TNF at 1 year); b)the eventual response to the third anti-TNF is
relatively quick; c) no other medical options have been approved for IBD
treatment; d)the only alternative options are surgery, compassionate use with
non-anti-TNFs, and clinical trials. However, there are also arguments against the
prescription of a third anti-TNF: a)lack of experience, since the few available
studies are limited by their small sample size; b)the relatively low response in 
the long term (mainly due to loss of response); c) and finally, and most
importantly, the risk of severe adverse events. Conclusion. The delicate balance 
between pros and cons means the use of a third anti-TNF after failure of two
previous agents should be considered only in patients with no other therapeutic
options. Decisions should be taken on an individual basis.

PMID: 25636030  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


407. Aten Primaria. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S0212-6567(14)00420-X. doi:
10.1016/j.aprim.2014.11.008. [Epub ahead of print]

[Therapeutic massage on behavioral disturbances of elderly patients with
dementia.]

[Article in Spanish]

Barquilla Ávila C(1), Rodríguez-Mansilla J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Fisioterapia Carolina Barquilla, Cáceres, España. (2)Grupo de
investigación ADolor. Departamento de Terapéutica Médico-Quirúrgica, Facultad de 
Medicina, Universidad de Extremadura, Badajoz, España. Electronic address:
jrodman@unex.es.

OBJETIVE: To know the efficacy of therapeutic massage on behavioral disturbances 
of elderly patients with dementia.
DESIGN: Literature review.
DATA SOURCE: The literature search was done in six scientific databases: PubMed, 
Cochrane Library Plus, PEDro, Dialnet, Scopus and CSIC, between 1983 and 2013.
The search terms were "massage", "dementia", "therapy", "behavior disorders" and 
"Alzheimer".
SELECION OF STUDIES: Of the 496 articles analyzed, 11 scientific articles have
met the selection criteria. Inclusion criteria were: clinical trials, published
in English or Spanish, which had analyzed the effects of massage therapy on
altered behaviors in people with dementia.
DATA EXTRACTION: The variables were massage benefits, type of massage and massage
lubricant.
RESULTS: Their authors use different massage techniques (effleurage, pétrissage, 
pressures, frictions and kneading), obtain better conduct disorders (aggression, 
anxiety, agitation, and resistance to care) of elderly.
CONCLUSIONS: The therapeutic massage can be a complementary treatment in the
rehabilitation program for better behavior disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25639764  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


408. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S0925-4439(15)00021-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbadis.2015.01.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Lifespan and healthspan extension by resveratrol.

Bhullar KS(1), Hubbard BP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2H7,
Canada. (2)Department of Pharmacology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, T6G
2H7, Canada. Electronic address: bphubbard@ualberta.ca.

A number of small molecules with the ability to extend the lifespan of multiple
organisms have recently been discovered. Resveratrol, amongst the most prominent 
of these, has gained widespread attention due to its ability to extend the
lifespan of yeast, worms, and flies, and its ability to protect against
age-related diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer's, and diabetes in mammals. In
this review, we discuss the origins and molecular targets of resveratrol and
provide an overview of its effects on the lifespan of simple model organisms and 
mammals. We also examine the unique ability of resveratrol to extend the healthy 
years, or healthspan, of mammals and its potential to counteract the symptoms of 
age-related disease. Finally, we explore the many scientific, medical, and
economic challenges faced when translating these findings to the clinic, and
examine potential approaches for realizing the possibility of human lifespan
extension. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Resveratrol:
Challenges in translating pre-clinical findings to improved patient outcomes.

Crown Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25640851  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


409. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S1083-8791(14)01474-8. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.12.030. [Epub ahead of print]

Guidelines for Defining and Implementing Standard Episode of Care for
Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation within the Context of Clinical Trials.

Majhail NS(1), Giralt S(2), Bonagura A(3), Crawford S(4), Farnia S(5), Omel
JL(6), Pasquini M(7), Saber W(7), LeMaistre CF(8).

Author information: 
(1)Blood & Marrow Transplant Program, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH. Electronic
address: majhain@ccf.org. (2)Adult Bone Marrow Transplant Service, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY. (3)Optum Health, Minneapolis, MN. (4)Cigna
LifeSource Transplant Network, Pittsburgh, PA. (5)National Marrow Donor Program, 
Minneapolis, MN. (6)Grand Island, NE. (7)Division of Hematology and Oncology,
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI; Center for International Blood and
Marrow Transplant Research, Milwaukee, WI. (8)Sarah Cannon, Nashville, TN.

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires that healthcare insurers 
cover routine patient costs associated with participating in clinical trials for 
cancer and other life-threatening diseases. There is a need to better define
'routine costs' within the context of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
(HSCT) clinical trials. This white paper presents guidance on behalf of the
American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation for defining a standard
HSCT episode and delineates components that may be considered as routine patient 
costs versus research costs. The guidelines will assist investigators, trial
sponsors and transplant centers in planning for clinical trials that are
conducted as a part of the HSCT episode and will inform payers who provide
coverage for transplantation.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25639771  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


410. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S1083-8791(14)01475-X. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.12.031. [Epub ahead of print]

NIH Consensus Development Project on Criteria for Clinical Trials in Chronic
Graft-Versus-Host Disease: II. The 2014 Pathology Working Group Report.

Shulman HM(1), Cardona DM(2), Greenson JK(3), Hingorani S(4), Horn T(5), Huber
E(6), Kreft A(7), Longerich T(8), Morton T(9), Myerson D(10), Prieto VG(11),
Rosenberg A(12), Treister N(13), Washington K(14), Ziemer M(15), Pavletic SZ(12),
Lee SJ(1), Flowers ME(1), Schultz KR(16), Jagasia M(14), Martin PJ(1), Vogelsang 
GB(17), Kleiner DE(18).

Author information: 
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA. (2)Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, NC. (3)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. (4)Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA; University of Washington,
Seattle, WA; Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, WA. (5)Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA. (6)University of Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany.
(7)University Medical Center Mainz, Mainz, Germany. (8)University Hospital RWTH
Aachen, Aachen, Germany. (9)University of Washington, Seattle, WA. (10)Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA; University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. (11)University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(12)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
(13)Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center, Boston, MA. (14)Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, TN. (15)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital of 
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. (16)BC Children's Hospital/University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC. (17)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD. (18)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD. Electronic address: kleinerd@mail.nih.gov.

The 2005 National Institute of Health (NIH) Consensus Conference outlined
histopathological diagnostic criteria for the major organ systems affected by
both acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The 2014 Consensus
Conference led to this updated document with new information from
histopathological studies of GVHD in the gut, liver, skin and oral mucosa and
expanded discussion of GVHD in the lungs and kidneys. The recommendations for
final histological diagnostic categories have been simplified from 4 categories
to 3: no GVHD, possible, and likely GVHD based on better reproducibility achieved
by combining the previous categories of consistent with and definite GVHD into
the single category of likely GVHD. Issues remain in the histopathological
characterization of GVHD, particularly with respect to the threshold of
histological changes required for diagnostic certainty. Guidance is provided for 
the incorporation of biopsy information into prospective clinical studies of
GVHD, particularly with respect to biomarker validation.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25639770  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


411. Biotechnol Lett. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Exploring the impact of F270V mutation in the β-tubulin (Bos Taurus) structure
and its function: a computational perspective.

Verma K(1), Ramanathan K.

Author information: 
(1)Industrial Biotechnology Division, School of Bio Sciences and Technology, VIT 
University, Vellore, 632014, Tamil Nadu, India.

Paclitaxel is the most effective chemotherapeutic agent used for the treatment of
a broad spectrum of solid tumors. However, observed paclitaxel resistance in
clinical trials presents one of the major obstacles for cancer chemotherapy. Most
importantly, resistance due to β-tubulin mutations (F270V) has been intensely
debated in recent years. Despite all efforts, mechanism of resistance is still
not well understood. In this study, computational techniques were employed to
uncover the effect of F270V mutation in the β-tubulin structure and its function.
The tools such as MuStab, CUPSAT and I-Mutant were employed to address the
consequence of F270V mutation in the structural stability of β-tubulin. Further, 
molecular simulation study was employed to understand the functional impact of
β-tubulin mutation. We believe that this study will provide useful guidance for
the development of novel inhibitors that are less susceptible to drug resistance.

PMID: 25631779  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


412. Br J Sports Med. 2015 Jan 29. pii: bjsports-2014-094256. doi:
10.1136/bjsports-2014-094256. [Epub ahead of print]

Study quality on groin injury management remains low: a systematic review on
treatment of groin pain in athletes.

Serner A(1), van Eijck CH(2), Beumer BR(2), Hölmich P(1), Weir A(3), de Vos
RJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Aspetar Sports Groin Pain Center, Orthopaedic and Sports Medicine Hospital,
Doha, Qatar Arthroscopic Center Amager, SORC-C, Copenhagen University Hospital,
Amager-Hvidovre, Denmark. (2)Department of Surgery, Erasmus University Medical
Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Aspetar Sports Groin Pain Center,
Orthopaedic and Sports Medicine Hospital, Doha, Qatar. (4)Department of
Orthopaedics, Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Groin pain in athletes is frequent and many different treatment
options have been proposed. The current level of evidence for the efficacy of
these treatments is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: Systematically review the literature on the efficacy of treatments for
groin pain in athletes.
METHODS: Nine medical databases were searched in May 2014. Inclusion criteria:
treatment studies in athletes with groin pain; randomised controlled trials,
controlled clinical trials or case series; n>10; outcome measures describing
number of recovered athletes, patient satisfaction, pain scores or functional
outcome scores. One author screened search results, and two authors independently
assessed study quality. A best evidence synthesis was performed. Relationships
between quality score and outcomes were evaluated. Review registration number
CRD42014010262.
RESULTS: 72 studies were included for quality analysis. Four studies were high
quality. There is moderate evidence that, for adductor-related groin pain, active
exercises compared with passive treatments improve success, multimodal treatment 
with a manual therapy technique shortens the time to return to sports compared
with active exercises and adductor tenotomy improves treatment success over time.
There is moderate evidence that for athletes with sportsman's hernia, surgery
results in better treatment success then conservative treatment. There was a
moderate and inverse correlation between study quality and treatment success
(p<0.001, r=-0.41), but not between study quality and publication year (p=0.09,
r=0.20).
CONCLUSIONS: Only 6% of publications were high quality. Low-quality studies
showed significantly higher treatment success and study quality has not improved 
since 1985. There is moderate evidence for the efficacy of conservative treatment
(active exercises and multimodal treatments) and for surgery in patients with
adductor-related groin pain. There is moderate evidence for efficacy of surgical 
treatment in sportsman's hernia.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25633830  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


413. Br J Surg. 2015 Jan 29. doi: 10.1002/bjs.9703. [Epub ahead of print]

Meta-analysis of complication rates for single-loop versus dual-loop (Roux-en-Y) 
with isolated pancreaticojejunostomy reconstruction after
pancreaticoduodenectomy.

Klaiber U(1), Probst P, Knebel P, Contin P, Diener MK, Büchler MW, Hackert T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General, Visceral and Transplantation Surgery, University of
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Postoperative pancreatic fistula is one of the most important and
potentially severe complications after partial pancreaticoduodenectomy. In this
context, the reduction of postoperative pancreatic fistula by means of a
dual-loop (Roux-en-Y) reconstruction with isolation of the pancreaticojejunostomy
from biliary drainage has been evaluated in several studies. This systematic
review and meta-analysis summarizes evidence of effectiveness and safety of the
isolation of the pancreaticojejunostomy compared with conventional single-loop
reconstruction.
METHODS: Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) and controlled clinical trials (CCTs) 
comparing outcomes of dual-loop reconstruction with isolated
pancreaticojejunostomy and single-loop reconstruction were searched according to 
PRISMA guidelines. Random-effects meta-analyses were performed and the results
presented as weighted risk ratios or mean differences with their corresponding 95
per cent c.i.
RESULTS: Of 83 trials screened for eligibility, three RCTs and four CCTs
including a total of 802 patients were finally included. Quantitative synthesis
showed no significant statistical difference between the two procedures regarding
postoperative pancreatic fistula, delayed gastric emptying, haemorrhage,
intra-abdominal fluid collection or abscess, bile leakage, wound infection,
pneumonia, overall morbidity, mortality, reinterventions, reoperations,
perioperative blood loss and length of hospital stay. Duration of surgery was
significantly longer in patients undergoing dual-loop reconstruction.
CONCLUSION: Dual-loop (Roux-en-Y) reconstruction with isolated
pancreaticojejunostomy after partial pancreaticoduodenectomy is not superior to
single-loop reconstruction regarding pancreatic fistula rate or other relevant
outcomes. Additional superiority trials are therefore not warranted, although a
high-quality trial may be justified to prove equivalence or non-inferiority.

© 2015 BJS Society Ltd Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25644428  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


414. Cancers (Basel). 2015 Jan 29;7(1):305-28. doi: 10.3390/cancers7010305.

Immunreconstitution and infectious complications after rituximab treatment in
children and adolescents: what do we know and what can we learn from adults?

Worch J(1), Makarova O(2), Burkhardt B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Children's Hospital Münster,
Münster, 48149, Germany. jennifer.worch@ukmuenster.de. (2)Pediatric Hematology
and Oncology, University Children's Hospital Münster, Münster, 48149, Germany.
olga.makarova@ukmuenster.de. (3)Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University
Children's Hospital Münster, Münster, 48149, Germany.
birgit.burkhardt@ukmuenster.de.

Rituximab, an anti CD20 monoclonal antibody, is widely used in the treatment of
B-cell malignancies in adults and increasingly in pediatric patients. By
depleting B-cells, rituximab interferes with humoral immunity. This review
provides a comprehensive overview of immune reconstitution and infectious
complications after rituximab treatment in children and adolescents. Immune
reconstitution starts usually after six months with recovery to normal between
nine to twelve months. Extended rituximab treatment results in a prolonged
recovery of B-cells without an increase of clinically relevant infections. The
kinetic of B-cell recovery is influenced by the concomitant chemotherapy and the 
underlying disease. Intensive B-NHL treatment such as high-dose chemotherapy
followed by rituximab bears a risk for prolonged hypogammaglobulinemia. Overall
transient alteration of immune reconstitution and infections after rituximab
treatment are acceptable for children and adolescent without significant
differences compared to adults. However, age related disparities in the kinetic
of immune reconstitution and the definitive role of rituximab in the treatment
for children and adolescents with B-cell malignancies need to be evaluated in
prospective controlled clinical trials.

PMID: 25643241  [PubMed]


415. ChemMedChem. 2015 Jan 29. doi: 10.1002/cmdc.201402462. [Epub ahead of print]

On the Metabolically Active Form of Metaglidasen: Improved Synthesis and
Investigation of Its Peculiar Activity on Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated
Receptors and Skeletal Muscles.

Laghezza A(1), Montanari R, Lavecchia A, Piemontese L, Pochetti G, Iacobazzi V,
Infantino V, Capelli D, De Bellis M, Liantonio A, Pierno S, Tortorella P, Conte
Camerino D, Loiodice F.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Farmacia-Scienze del Farmaco, Università degli Studi di Bari
"Aldo Moro", 70126 Bari (Italy).

Metaglidasen is a fibrate-like drug reported as a selective modulator of
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), able to lower plasma
glucose levels in the absence of the side effects typically observed with
thiazolidinedione antidiabetic agents in current use. Herein we report an
improved synthesis of metaglidasen's metabolically active form halofenic acid
(R)-2 and that of its enantiomer (S)-2. The activity of the two stereoisomers was
carefully examined on PPARα and PPARγ subtypes. As expected, both showed partial 
agonist activity toward PPARγ; the investigation of PPARα activity, however, led 
to unexpected results. In particular, (S)-2 was found to act as a partial
agonist, whereas (R)-2 behaved as an antagonist. X-ray crystallographic studies
with PPARγ were carried out to gain more insight on the molecular-level
interactions and to propose a binding mode. Given the adverse effects provoked by
fibrate drugs on skeletal muscle function, we also investigated the capacity of
(R)-2 and (S)-2 to block conductance of the skeletal muscle membrane chloride
channel. The results showed a more beneficial profile for (R)-2, the activity of 
which on skeletal muscle function, however, should not be overlooked in the
ongoing clinical trials studying its long-term effects.

© 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

PMID: 25641779  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


416. Clin Rheumatol. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatment of osteoporosis in renal insufficiency.

Schipper LG(1), Fleuren HW, van den Bergh JP, Meinardi JR, Veldman BA, Kramers C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Canisius-Wilhelmina Ziekenhuis, Nijmegen,
Netherlands, lydiaschipper@hotmail.com.

Patients with osteoporosis often have chronic kidney disease (CKD). CKD is
associated with bone and mineral disturbances, renal osteodystrophy, which like
osteoporosis leads to a higher risk of fractures. Bisphosphonates are first-line 
therapy for osteoporosis; however, these are contra-indicated in patients with a 
GFR <30 ml/min. In this article, we have reviewed the diagnosis and treatment of 
osteoporosis in moderate to severe renal failure from data of clinical trials.
Results have shown that osteoporosis patients and severe CKD with no signs of
renal osteodystrophy, oral bisphosphonates (risedronate) seem to be a safe
choice. Renal function and PTH should subsequently be monitored strictly.
Denosumab, with regularly monitoring of calcium and adequate vitamin D levels or 
raloxifene are a possible second choice. In any case, one should be certain that 
there is no adynamic bone before treatment can be started. If there is any doubt,
bone biopsies should be taken.

PMID: 25630310  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


417. Clin Trials. 2015 Jan 29. pii: 1740774514568689. [Epub ahead of print]

Cancer patients' acceptability of incorporating an epidemiology questionnaire
within a clinical trial.

Cuffe S(1), Hon H(2), Tobros K(2), Espin-Garcia O(2), Brhane Y(2), Harland L(2), 
Fadhel E(2), Eng L(2), LaDelfa A(2), Waldron J(2), Siu LL(2), Chen BE(3), Xu
W(2), Simmons C(4), Kassam Z(5), Montenegro A(3), Parulekar WR(3), Liu G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada HOPE Directorate, St. James's Hospital, Dublin,
Ireland Scuffe@stjames.ie. (2)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health 
Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (3)NCIC Clinical Trials
Group, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada. (4)BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, 
BC, Canada. (5)Southlake Cancer Centre, Newmarket, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Understanding the influence or impact of epidemiological factors
on cancer outcomes in clinical trials can broaden our knowledge of disease, trial
populations and therapeutic effects thus leading to improved patient care.
However, there is a lack of data on cancer patients' compliance with an
epidemiology questionnaire in the context of a clinical trial.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Cancer patients were provided with a hypothetical scenario 
and surveyed regarding their willingness and preferences to complete an
epidemiology questionnaire if incorporated into a cancer therapy trial. Patient
compliance with completing a voluntary epidemiology questionnaire and trial
coordinators perceptions therein were separately determined in the NCIC Clinical 
Trials Group HN.6 clinical trial, an ongoing randomized phase III trial comparing
two first-line treatment regimens in patients with locoregionally advanced head
and neck cancer.
RESULTS: Of 617 cancer patients from community, academic and tertiary cancer
centres, the majority were willing to complete an epidemiology questionnaire
either unconditionally (45%), or provided it did not inconvenience them (31%); 4%
would refuse. Patients preferred shorter questionnaires of 30-50 questions
requiring 10-20 min to complete, administered over 1-3 sessions. Patients were
less willing, but still compliant, to answer questions relating to sexual history
(71%) and annual household income (66%) relative to other questions (>90%).
Eighteen percent thought that the questionnaire should be mandatory, with 31%
believing that they may benefit personally from such research. In the HN.6 trial,
compliance averaged 94.8% per question.
CONCLUSIONS: Cancer patients are very willing to complete epidemiology questions 
in clinical trials.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25633805  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


418. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 29;1:CD008017. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD008017.pub4.

Embolisation for pulmonary arteriovenous malformation.

Hsu CC(1), Kwan GN, Thompson SA, Evans-Barns H, van Driel ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Imaging, Princess Alexandra Hospital, 199 Ipswich Road, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia, 4102.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;8:CD008017.

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary arteriovenous malformations are abnormal direct connections
between the pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein which result in a right-to-left
shunt. They are associated with substantial morbidity and mortality mainly from
the effects of paradoxical emboli. Potential complications include stroke,
cerebral abscess, pulmonary haemorrhage and hypoxaemia. Embolisation is an
endovascular intervention based on the occlusion of the feeding arteries the
pulmonary arteriovenous malformations thus eliminating the abnormal
right-to-left-shunting.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the efficacy and safety of embolisation in patients with
pulmonary arteriovenous malformations including a comparison with surgical
resection and different embolisation devices.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group's
Trials Register; date of last search: 31 March 2014.We also searched the
following databases: the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry;
ClinicalTrials.gov; International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number
Register; International Clinical Trials Registry Platform Search Portal (last
searched 1 July 2014).We checked cross-references and searched references from
review articles.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Trials in which individuals with pulmonary arteriovenous
malformations were randomly allocated to embolisation compared to no treatment,
surgical resection or embolisation using a different embolisation device.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Studies identified for potential inclusion were
independently assessed for eligibility by two authors, with excluded studies
further checked by a third author. No trials were identified for inclusion in the
review and hence no analysis was performed.
MAIN RESULTS: There were no randomised controlled trials included in the review; 
one ongoing trial has been identified which may be eligible for inclusion in the 
future.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is no evidence from randomised controlled trials for 
embolisation of pulmonary arteriovenous malformations. However, randomised
controlled trials are not always feasible on ethical grounds. Accumulated data
from observational studies suggest that embolisation reduces morbidity. A
standardised approach to reporting with long-term follow-up through registry
studies can help to strengthen the evidence for embolisation in the absence of
randomised controlled trials.

PMID: 25634560  [PubMed - in process]


419. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2015 Jan 29. pii: a017285. doi:
10.1101/cshperspect.a017285. [Epub ahead of print]

The Status of RPE65 Gene Therapy Trials: Safety and Efficacy.

Pierce EA(1), Bennett J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ocular Genomics Institute, Massachusetts Eye and 
Ear Infirmary and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Center for Advanced Retinal and Ophthalmic
Therapeutics, F.M. Kirby Center for Molecular Ophthalmology, University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.

Several groups have reported the results of clinical trials of gene augmentation 
therapy for Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) because of mutations in the RPE65
gene. These studies have used subretinal injection of adeno-associated virus
(AAV) vectors to deliver the human RPE65 cDNA to the retinal pigment epithelial
(RPE) cells of the treated eyes. In all of the studies reported to date, this
approach has been shown to be both safe and effective. The successful clinical
trials of gene augmentation therapy for retinal degeneration caused by mutations 
in the RPE65 gene sets the stage for broad application of gene therapy to treat
retinal degenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2015 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; all rights reserved.

PMID: 25635059  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


420. Curr Opin Pediatr. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease in children.

Cadnapaphornchai MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Children's Hospital Colorado, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, Colorado,
USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the
most common hereditary renal disease, affecting one in 500 individuals. The
cardinal manifestation of ADPKD is progressive cystic dilatation of renal tubules
with kidney enlargement and progression to end-stage renal disease in
approximately half of cases by 60 years of age. Although previously considered a 
condition of adults, it is clear that children and young adults are subject to
the complications of ADPKD.
RECENT FINDINGS: It has been increasingly recognized that interventions early in 
life are necessary in order to confer the best long-term outcome in this common
condition. Therefore, it is imperative for pediatricians to recognize the
manifestations and complications of this disease. Until recently ADPKD management
focused on general principles of chronic kidney disease. However, several recent 
clinical trials in children and adults with ADPKD have focused on
disease-specific therapies.
SUMMARY: This review will highlight the clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and
appropriate management of ADPKD in childhood and will review recent relevant
clinical trials in children and adults with this condition.

PMID: 25635587  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


421. Dis Model Mech. 2015 Jan 29. pii: dmm.017699. [Epub ahead of print]

Cell-based therapies for experimental chronic kidney disease: a systematic review
and meta-analysis.

Papazova DA(1), Oosterhuis NR(2), Gremmels H(2), van Koppen A(2), Joles JA(2),
Verhaar MC(2).

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center Utrecht, Ultrecht, The Netherlands
d.a.papazova@umcutrecht.nl. (2)University Medical Center Utrecht, Ultrecht, The
Netherlands.

Cell-based therapy is a promising strategy for treating chronic kidney disease
(CKD) and currently the focus of preclinical studies. We performed a systematic
review and meta-analysis to evaluate efficacy of cell-based therapy in
preclinical (animal) studies of CKD, and determined factors affecting cell-based 
therapy efficacy in order to guide future clinical trials. 71 articles met
inclusion criteria. Standardized mean differences (SMD) and 95% confidence
interval (CI) were calculated for outcome parameters including plasma urea,
plasma creatinine, urinary protein, blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate,
glomerulosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis. Sub-analysis for each outcome
measure was performed for model-related (species, gender, model and timing of
therapy) and cell-related (cell type, -condition, -origin, administration route
and regime of therapy) factors. Overall, meta-analysis showed that cell-based
therapy reduced development and progression of CKD. This was most prominent for
urinary protein (SMD 1.34 95% CI [1.00-1.68]) and urea (1.09, 0.66-1.51), both
p<0.001. Changes in plasma urea associated with changes in both
glomerulosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis. Sub-analysis showed that cell type 
(bone marrow derived progenitors and mesenchymal stromal cells being most
effective) and administration route (intravenous or renal artery injection) were 
significant predictors of therapeutic efficacy. Timing of therapy in relation to 
clinical manifestation of disease, and cell-origin and -dose, were not associated
with efficacy. Our meta-analysis confirms that cell-based therapies improve
impaired renal function and morphology in preclinical models of CKD. Our analyses
can be used to optimize experimental interventions and thus support both improved
preclinical research and development of cell-based therapeutic interventions in
clinical setting.

PMID: 25633980  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


422. Epilepsia. 2015 Jan 29. doi: 10.1111/epi.12916. [Epub ahead of print]

Suppressing limbic seizures by stimulating medial dorsal thalamic nucleus:
Factors for efficacy.

Zhang X(1), Bertram EH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia,
U.S.A.

OBJECTIVE: The optimal sites and stimulation protocols for brain stimulation in
epilepsy have not been found. Clinical trials, which have shown modest benefit in
seizure reduction, have involved patients with poorly localized intractable focal
epilepsy and stimulation sites without clear relations to specific underlying
seizure circuits. The medial dorsal thalamic nucleus is a key node in limbic
seizure circuits, and we wished to know what stimulation parameters might control
seizures in a kindling model of limbic epilepsy.
METHODS: In urethane-anesthetized rats, we induced limbic seizures by stimulation
of the piriform cortex or CA3 of the hippocampus while recording in the
entorhinal cortex or CA1 of the contralateral hippocampus to determine the effect
of specific stimulation parameters on seizure duration.
RESULTS: Stimulation consistently suppressed seizure duration from baseline by
over 80% (p < 0.001), frequently completely preventing the seizures. Position of 
the thalamic electrode, stimulus intensity and frequency had a significant
influence, with higher stimulus intensities (40 V vs. 20 V) and frequencies
(20 Hz vs. 7 Hz) significantly suppressing seizures. The most effective position 
was the lateral dorsal area of the medial dorsal nucleus (MD), which corresponded
to the region of axon entry. Stimulation in the MD center was not effective. An
anterior-posterior relationship of the stimulating electrode pair was effective, 
whereas a medial lateral orientation was not. Successful stimulation suppressed
the evoked responses in the entorhinal cortex or CA1.
SIGNIFICANCE: Position and orientation of the stimulating electrode has to be
precise, which suggests that the placement of the electrodes must be tailored to 
the individual's own seizure circuit. The data also indicate that successful deep
brain stimulation induces a fundamental change in system physiology, which could 
be a marker to guide the development of stimulation parameters for each patient.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2015 International League Against Epilepsy.

PMID: 25630397  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


423. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S0014-2999(15)00061-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.01.028. [Epub ahead of print]

High on-treatment platelet reactivity in transcatheter aortic valve implantation 
patients.

Polzin A(1), Schleicher M(2), Seidel H(3), Scharf RE(3), Merx MW(2), Kelm M(2),
Zeus T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Pulmonology, and Vascular Medicine, Heinrich Heine
University Medical Center Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
Amin.polzin@med.uni-duesseldorf.de. (2)Division of Cardiology, Pulmonology, and
Vascular Medicine, Heinrich Heine University Medical Center Düsseldorf,
Düsseldorf, Germany. (3)Department of Experimental and Clinical Hemostasis,
Hemotherapy, and Transfusion Medicine, Heinrich Heine University Medical Center
Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.

Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) is recommended early after transcatheter aortic 
valve implantation (TAVI) procedure at the moment despite the lack of evidence.
Two small randomized trials failed to demonstrate DAPT to be superior to aspirin 
alone in TAVI patients. However, it is known that there are substantial response 
variabilities to antiplatelet medication. We aimed to investigate high
on-treatment platelet reactivity (HTPR), low on-treatment platelet reactivity
(LTPR) to clopidogrel as well as HTPR to aspirin in patients undergoing TAVI
procedure. We analyzed data of 140 TAVI patients in a real world observational
study. Platelet function assays (clopidogrel-vasodilator-stimulated protein
phosphorylation assay; aspirin-light-transmission aggregometry) have been
performed during hospital course. Clinical complications were investigated during
30 days follow-up and defined using the valve academic research consortium
standardized criteria. HTPR to clopidogrel occurred in 87 (62%) patients and LTPR
in 9 (6.4%) patients. Aspirin antiplatelet effects were insufficient in 25 (18%) 
patients. Clinical complications were observed in 35 (25%) patients. Ischemic
events occurred in 6 (4%), bleeding complications in 28 (20%) patients. There
were no differences regarding the incidence of HTPR/LTPR in patients with overall
complications, ischemic events or bleeding events. HTPR to clopidogrel is very
frequent in TAVI patients. However bleeding complications are frequent and
ischemic events are rare. Therefore, future clinical trials investigating the
optimal antithrombotic regiment in TAVI patients should consider this high
incidence of HTPR to clopidogrel and monitor clopidogrel antiplatelet effects
carefully.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25641745  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


424. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015 Jan 29:1-10. [Epub ahead of print]

Gene therapy in peripheral artery disease.

Sanada F(1), Taniyama Y, Kanbara Y, Otsu R, Ikeda-Iwabu Y, Carracedo M, Rakugi H,
Morishita R.

Author information: 
(1)Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Department of Clinical Gene
Therapy , Suita, Osaka 565-0871 , Japan.

Introduction: Despite the remarkable progress of medicine and endovascular
procedures for revascularization, patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI)
remain at high risk for amputation and often have a low quality of life due to
pain and ulcers in the ischemic leg. Thus, a novel strategy for generating new
blood vessels in CLI patients without treatment options is vital. Pre-clinical
studies and Phase I clinical trials using VEGF and fibroblast growth factor (FGF)
demonstrated promising results; however, more rigorous Phase II and III clinical 
trials failed to demonstrate benefits for CLI patients. Recently, two
multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials in Japan (Phase
III) and the USA (Phase II) showed the benefits of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)
gene therapy for CLI patients. Although the number of patients included in these 
trials was relatively small, these results imply a distinct beneficial function
for HGF over other angiogenic growth factors in a clinical setting. Areas
covered: In this review, data from Phase I-III clinical trials of gene therapy
for patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD) are examined. In addition, the 
potential mechanisms behind the success or failure of clinical trials are
discussed. Expert opinion: Compared with VEGF and FGF, HGF has a unique molecular
effect on inflammation, fibrosis and cell senescence under pathological
conditions. These features may explain the clinical benefits of HGF in PAD
patients.

PMID: 25633211  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


425. Int J Cardiol. 2015 Jan 29;183C:47-53. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.01.046. [Epub
ahead of print]

A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials on statins for the prevention of 
contrast-induced acute kidney injury in patients with and without acute coronary 
syndromes.

Marenzi G(1), Cosentino N(2), Werba JP(2), Tedesco CC(2), Veglia F(2), Bartorelli
AL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centro Cardiologico Monzino, I.R.C.C.S., Milan. Electronic address:
giancarlo.marenzi@ccfm.it. (2)Centro Cardiologico Monzino, I.R.C.C.S., Milan.
(3)Centro Cardiologico Monzino, I.R.C.C.S., Milan; University of Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: We assessed whether short-term, pre-procedural, intensive statin
treatment may reduce contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) incidence in
patients with and without acute coronary syndromes (ACS) undergoing coronary
angiography (CA) and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
BACKGROUND: Statins may exert renal-protective effects through their pleiotropic 
properties. However, there have been conflicting reports on the CI-AKI preventive
effect of pre-procedural statin administration.
METHODS: Randomized controlled trials published between January 1st, 2003 and
February 28th, 2014 comparing the preventive effects against CI-AKI of
pre-procedural statins vs. control (lower statin dose, no statin, or placebo) in 
patients undergoing CA/PCI were included.
RESULTS: Data were combined from 9 clinical trials enrolling 5212 patients (age
65±5years, 63% males). Pooled analysis showed that intensive, short-term statin
pre-treatment significantly reduced the risk of CI-AKI as compared to control
(relative risk [RR] 0.50; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.39 to 0.64; P<0.001).
Pre-specified subgroup analysis showed that intensive statin pre-treatment
significantly reduced CI-AKI risk in patients with ACS (RR 0.37; 95% CI 0.25 to
0.55; P<0.0001), with only a non-significant positive trend in patients without
ACS (RR 0.65; 95% CI 0.41 to 1.03; P=0.07). No evidence of publication bias was
detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Short-term, pre-procedural, intensive statin treatment significantly
reduced CI-AKI incidence in ACS patients, and may contribute to the overall
clinical benefit associated with the early use of these drugs in this clinical
setting. Its role in non-ACS patients warrants further investigation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25662053  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


426. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S0020-7292(15)00060-0. doi:
10.1016/j.ijgo.2014.11.018. [Epub ahead of print]

Misoprostol versus Foley catheter insertion for induction of labor in pregnancies
affected by fetal growth restriction.

Chavakula PR(1), Benjamin SJ(1), Abraham A(1), Londhe V(1), Jeyaseelan V(2),
Mathews JE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Christian Medical College, Vellore,
Tamil Nadu, India. (2)Department of Biostatistics, Christian Medical College,
Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India. (3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Christian
Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic address:
og5@cmcvellore.ac.in.

OBJECTIVE: To compare 25μg of vaginal misoprostol with a Foley catheter for
induction of labor (IOL) for fetal growth restriction.
METHODS: A randomized controlled trial was conducted in a tertiary center in
South India. Women with fetal growth restriction (n=100) were randomized to be
induced with three doses of vaginal misoprostol (25μg) every 6hours or with an
intracervical Foley catheter, inserted 12hours before rupture of membranes, and
oxytocin if needed. The primary outcome was uterine tachysystole with fetal
cardiotocography abnormalities. Secondary outcomes pertained to effectiveness,
complications, and patient satisfaction.
RESULTS: One woman in the misoprostol group and none in the Foley catheter group 
had uterine tachysystole. The duration of labor from IOL to delivery was similar 
in both groups (P=0.416). More women in the misoprostol group had a vaginal
delivery within 12hours (26.1% versus 5.6%; P=0.005). Women induced with
misoprostol were less likely to deliver by lower-segment cesarean delivery (15.2%
versus 29.6%; P=0.168) and to require oxytocin augmentation (60.9% versus 85.2%; 
P=0.007). Complications were few in both group.
CONCLUSION: Few women had uterine tachysystole with cardiotocography
abnormalities. Vaginal misoprostol at 25μg was more effective than a Foley
catheter for IOL in fetal growth restriction. Clinical Trials Registry
India:CTRI/2014/02/004411.

Copyright © 2015 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics. Published
by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661322  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


427. Int Urogynecol J. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Pharmacological treatment of pure stress urinary incontinence: a narrative
review.

Malallah MA(1), Al-Shaiji TF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Al-Adan Hospital, Kuwait, Kuwait, 
drmalallah@icloud.com.

INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: Treatment escalation from conservative directly to
surgical in the management of pure stress urinary incontinence (SUI) reveals a
gap for effective pharmacological treatments. The introduction of a drug therapy 
would fill this gap and widen the treatment options. Nevertheless, various
pharmaceutical agents have been used off-label and are being investigated and
becoming more widely available. In this review, we examined the latest published 
data regarding pharmacotherapy used in the treatment of SUI.
METHODS: We performed a literature review to evaluate the relevant studies
pertaining to any pharmacotherapy used in the management of SUI, examining the
English language literature.
RESULTS: Currently, no drug exists that is approved by the food and drug
administration for the management of SUI. A few oral pharmacological agents are
occasionally used off-label. Lack of proven efficacy and high incidence of
bothersome side effects of these agents limit their use. Duloxetine, a serotonin 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, represents a major therapeutic advance for the
treatment of SUI based on findings from a number of controlled clinical trials.
CONCLUSIONS: Several pharmacological agents have been used off-label and
investigated for safety and efficacy, but none has demonstrated sufficient
effectiveness to receive widespread verification for its use in the treatment of 
SUI.

PMID: 25630399  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


428. J Alzheimers Dis. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Corpus Callosum Atrophy Rate in Mild Cognitive Impairment and Prodromal
Alzheimer's Disease.

Elahi S(1), Bachman AH(1), Lee SH(1), Sidtis JJ(2), Ardekani BA(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research, Orangeburg, NY, USA.
(2)The Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research, Orangeburg, NY, USA
Department of Psychiatry, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY,
USA.

Background: Corpus callosum (CC) size and shape have been previously studied in
Alzheimer's disease (AD) with the majority of studies having been
cross-sectional. Due to the large variance in normal CC morphology,
cross-sectional studies are limited in statistical power. Determining individual 
rates of change requires longitudinal data. Physiological changes are
particularly relevant in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), in which CC morphology 
has not been previously studied longitudinally. Objective: To study temporal
rates of change in CC morphology in MCI patients over a one-year period, and to
determine whether these rates differ between MCI subjects who converted to AD
(MCI-C) and those who did not (MCI-NC) over an average (±SD) observation period
of 5.4 (±1.6) years. Methods: We used a novel multi-atlas based algorithm to
segment the mid-sagittal cross-sectional area of the CC in longitudinal MRI
scans. Rates of change of CC circularity, total area, and five sub-areas were
compared between 57 MCI-NC and 81 MCI-C subjects. Results: The CC became less
circular (-0.89% per year in MCI-NC, -1.85% per year in MCI-C) with time, with
faster decline in MCI-C (p = 0.0002). In females, atrophy rates were higher in
MCI-C relative to MCI-NC in total CC area (p = 0.0006), genu/rostrum (p = 0.005),
and splenium (0.002). In males, these rates did not differ between groups.
Conclusion: A greater than normal decline in CC circularity was shown to be an
indicator of prodromal AD in MCI subjects. This measure is potentially useful as 
an imaging biomarker of disease and a therapeutic target in clinical trials.

PMID: 25633676  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


429. J Behav Med. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Who practices yoga? A systematic review of demographic, health-related, and
psychosocial factors associated with yoga practice.

Park CL(1), Braun T, Siegel T.

Author information: 
(1)University of Connecticut, Box 1020, Storrs, CT, 06269, USA,
crystal.park@uconn.edu.

Yoga has become increasingly popular in the US and around the world, yet because 
most yoga research is conducted as clinical trials or experiments, little is
known about the characteristics and correlates of people who independently choose
to practice yoga. We conducted a systematic review of this issue, identifying 55 
studies and categorizing correlates of yoga practice into sociodemographics,
psychosocial characteristics, and mental and physical well-being. Yoga use is
greatest among women and those with higher socioeconomic status and appears
favorably related to psychosocial factors such as coping and mindfulness. Yoga
practice often relates to better subjective health and health behaviors but also 
with more distress and physical impairment. However, evidence is sparse and
methodological limitations preclude drawing causal inferences. Nationally
representative studies have minimally assessed yoga while studies with strong
assessment of yoga practice (e.g., type, dose) are generally conducted with
convenience samples. Almost all studies reviewed are cross-sectional and few
control for potential confounding variables. We provide recommendations for
future research to better understand the correlates of yoga practice.

PMID: 25627668  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


430. J Bioeth Inq. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Nonconsensual Clinical Trials: A Foreseeable Risk of Offshoring Under Global
Corporatism.

Spielman B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 801 N. Rutledge St.,
Springfield, IL, 62702, USA, bspielman@siumed.edu.

This paper explores the connection of offshoring and outsourcing to nonconsensual
global pharmaceutical trials in low-income countries. After discussing reasons
why the topic of nonconsensual offshored clinical trials may be overlooked in
bioethics literature, I suggest that when pharmaceutical corporations offshore
clinical trials today, nonconsensual experiments are often foreseeable and not
simply the result of aberrant ethical conduct by a few individuals. Offshoring of
clinical trials is structured so that experiments can be presented as health care
in a unique form of outsourcing from the host country to pharmaceutical
corporations. Bioethicists' assessments of the risks and potential benefits of
offshore corporate pharmaceutical trials should therefore systematically include 
not only the hoped for benefits and the risks of the experimental drug but also
the risk that subjects will not have consented, as well as the broader
international consequences of nonconsensual experimentation.

PMID: 25630592  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


431. J Neurooncol. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Survival outcomes and safety of carmustine wafers in the treatment of high-grade 
gliomas: a meta-analysis.

Chowdhary SA(1), Ryken T, Newton HB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuro-Oncology, Florida Hospital Cancer Institute, 2501 N.
Orange Avenue, Suite 286, Orlando, FL, 32804, USA.

Carmustine wafers (CW; Gliadel(®) wafers) are approved to treat newly-diagnosed
high-grade glioma (HGG) and recurrent glioblastoma. Widespread use has been
limited for several reasons, including concern that their use may preclude
enrollment in subsequent clinical trials due to uncertainty about confounding of 
results and potential toxicities. This meta-analysis estimated survival following
treatment with CW for HGG. A literature search identified relevant studies.
Overall survival (OS), median survival, and adverse events (AEs) were summarized.
Analysis of variance evaluated effects of treatment (CW vs non-CW) and diagnosis 
(new vs recurrent) on median survival. The analysis included 62 publications,
which reported data for 60 studies (CW: n = 3,162; non-CW: n = 1,736). For
newly-diagnosed HGG, 1-year OS was 67 % with CW and 48 % without; 2-year OS was
26 and 15 %, respectively; median survival was 16.4 ± 21.6 months and
13.1 ± 29.9 months, respectively. For recurrent HGG, 1-year OS was 37 % with CW
and 34 % without; 2-year OS was 15 and 12 %, respectively; median survival was
9.7 ± 20.9 months and 8.6 ± 22.6 months, respectively. Effects of treatment
(longer median survival with CW than without; P = 0.043) and diagnosis (longer
median survival for newly-diagnosed HGG than recurrent; P < 0.001) on median
survival were significant, with no significant treatment-by-diagnosis interaction
(P = 0.620). The most common AE associated with wafer removal was surgical site
infection (SSI); the most common AEs for repeat surgery were mass effect, SSI,
hydrocephalus, cysts in resection cavity, acute hematoma, wound healing
complications, and brain necrosis. These data may be useful in the context of
utilizing CW in HGG management, and in designing future clinical trials to allow 
CW-treated patients to participate in experimental protocols.

PMID: 25630625  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


432. J Pain. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S1526-5900(15)00050-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jpain.2015.01.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Validation of the Short-form McGill Pain Questionnaire-2 (SF-MPQ-2) in Acute Low 
Back Pain.

Dworkin RH(1), Turk DC(2), Trudeau JJ(3), Benson C(4), Biondi DM(4), Katz NP(5), 
Kim M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Rochester, New York; Department of Neurology, University of Rochester 
School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, New York; Center for Human
Experimental Therapeutics, University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Rochester, New York. Electronic address:
robert_dworkin@urmc.rochester.edu. (2)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. (3)Analgesic Solutions, 
Natick, Massachusetts. (4)Janssen Scientific Affairs, LLC, Raritan, NJ, USA.
(5)Analgesic Solutions, Natick, Massachusetts; Tufts University, Boston,
Massachusetts.

The Short-form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ-2) assesses the major symptoms
of both neuropathic and non-neuropathic pain and can be used in studies of
epidemiology, natural history, pathophysiologic mechanisms, and treatment
response. Previous research has demonstrated its reliability, validity, and
responsiveness in diverse samples of patients with chronic pain. However, the
SF-MPQ-2 has not been evaluated for use in patients with acute pain. Data were
examined from a double-blind, randomized clinical trial of immediate-release
tapentadol vs. immediate-release oxycodone in patients with acute low back and
associated radicular leg pain (n = 666). Analyses of internal consistency,
convergent validity, and confirmatory factor structure were conducted using
baseline data, and analyses of responsiveness were conducted using baseline and
endpoint data. The SF-MPQ-2 total score and its four subscale scores (continuous 
pain, intermittent pain, predominantly neuropathic pain, affective descriptors)
generally showed good psychometric properties and (1) were internally consistent;
(2) displayed good convergent validity; (3) fit the a priori factor structure;
and (4) were highly responsive to analgesic treatment. These data extend previous
evidence of the reliability, validity, and responsiveness of the SF-MPQ-2 in
patients with chronic pain to those with acute low back and associated radicular 
leg pain.PERSPECTIVE: Considered together with the results of other recent
studies, the data suggest that the SF-MPQ-2 can provide a valid, responsive, and 
efficient assessment of both neuropathic and non-neuropathic pain qualities for
clinical trials and other clinical research examining patients with various acute
and chronic pain conditions.

Copyright © 2015 American Pain Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25640290  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


433. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015 Jan 29. pii: gfu411. [Epub ahead of print]

Diabetic nephropathy: landmark clinical trials and tribulations.

Chan GC(1), Tang SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Queen
Mary Hospital, Hong Kong.

Diabetic nephropathy remains the most common cause of end-stage renal disease
worldwide. The current standard of therapy for diabetic nephropathy involves
stringent blood pressure control via blockade of the renin-angiotensin system and
control of hyperglycemia. Despite these strategies, diabetic nephropathy is still
seen to progress relentlessly. A pressing need for novel therapeutic agents has
fueled endless basic science research projects and clinical trials in the quest
for a more specific therapy. Throughout the process, only a handful of ancillary 
agents have shown experimental promise and even fewer have demonstrated an impact
in human trials. This review article aims to summarize the available data from
landmark studies for the main therapeutic approaches investigated.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of ERA-EDTA.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637638  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


434. Oncol Rep. 2015 Jan 29. doi: 10.3892/or.2015.3764. [Epub ahead of print]

AURKA upregulation plays a role in fibroblast-reduced gefitinib sensitivity in
the NSCLC cell line HCC827.

Chen J(1), Lu H(1), Zhou W(2), Yin H(2), Zhu L(1), Liu C(1), Zhang P(1), Hu H(1),
Yang Y(3), Han H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Medicine Center, Changzheng Hospital, Affiliated to The Second
Military Medical University, Shanghai, P.R. China. (2)Department of Bone Tumor
Surgery, Changzheng Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, P.R. 
China. (3)Cancer and Developmental Biology Laboratory, National Cancer Institute,
Frederick, MD, USA.

Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs)
have been used to treat non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) patients that have 
EGFR-activating mutations. EGFR-TKI monotherapy in most NSCLC patients with EGFR 
mutations who initially respond to EGFR-TKIs results in the development of
acquired resistance. We investigated the role of fibroblasts in stromal
cell-mediated resistance to gefitinib-induced apoptosis in EGFR-mutant NSCLC
cells. While gefitinib induced apoptosis in EGFR-mutant NSCLC cells, apoptosis
induction was diminished under stromal co-culture conditions. Protection appeared
to be mediated in part by Aurora-A kinase (AURKA) upregulation. The protective
effect of stromal cells was significantly reduced by pre-exposure to AURKA-shRNA.
We suggest that combinations of AURKA antagonists and EGFR inhibitors may be
effective in clinical trials targeting mutant EGFR NSCLCs.

PMID: 25634113  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


435. Palliat Med. 2015 Jan 29. pii: 0269216314563428. [Epub ahead of print]

Characteristics of episodic breathlessness as reported by patients with advanced 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lung cancer: Results of a descriptive
cohort study.

Weingärtner V(1), Scheve C(2), Gerdes V(3), Schwarz-Eywill M(4), Prenzel R(5),
Otremba B(6), Mühlenbrock J(4), Bausewein C(7), Higginson IJ(8), Voltz R(9),
Herich L(10), Simon ST; on behalf of PAALiativ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Palliative Medicine, University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne,
Germany Institute of Palliative Care (ipac) e.V. (BMBF 16KT0951), Oldenburg,
Germany. (2)Institute of Palliative Care (ipac) e.V. (BMBF 16KT0951), Oldenburg, 
Germany Department of Palliative Medicine, Protestant Hospital Oldenburg,
Oldenburg, Germany. (3)Institute of Palliative Care (ipac) e.V. (BMBF 16KT0951), 
Oldenburg, Germany. (4)Department of Palliative Medicine, Protestant Hospital
Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany. (5)Clinic for Internal Medicine, Pius-Hospital
Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany. (6)Oncological Practice Oldenburg, Oldenburg,
Germany. (7)Institute of Palliative Care (ipac) e.V. (BMBF 16KT0951), Oldenburg, 
Germany Department for Palliative Medicine, University Hospital Munich, Munich,
Germany. (8)Cicely Saunders Institute of Palliative Care, Policy &
Rehabilitation-WHO Collaborating Centre for Palliative Care and Older People,
King's College London, London, UK. (9)Department of Palliative Medicine,
University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, Germany Clinical Trials Unit (BMBF
01KN1106), University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, Germany Centre for Integrated
Oncology (CIO) Köln Bonn, University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(10)Institute of Medical Statistics, Informatics and Epidemiology (IMSIE),
University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Episodic breathlessness is one form of refractory breathlessness.
Better understanding of the symptom is necessary for effective management.
AIM: The aim was to describe the characteristics of episodic breathlessness in
patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or lung cancer.
DESIGN: This is a longitudinal cohort study. Outcomes were assessed monthly by up
to 13 telephone interviews: peak severity (modified Borg scale: 0-10), duration, 
frequency, and timing of breathlessness episodes. Data from each episode were
pooled and analyzed using descriptive statistics. Associations between outcomes
were explored by correlation coefficients.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (Global
Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease classification stage III or IV)
or primary lung cancer (any stage) were recruited in two inpatient units
(internal medicine) and two outpatient clinics in Oldenburg, Germany.
RESULTS: A total of 82 patients (50 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 32
lung cancer), mean age (standard deviation) 67 years (8 years) and 36% female,
were included reporting on 592 breathlessness episodes (chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease: 403, lung cancer: 189). Peak severity was perceived
significantly higher in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients than in
lung cancer patients (mean (standard deviation) Borg scale: 6.2 (2.1) vs 4.2
(1.9); p < 0.001). Episodes described by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
patients were longer than those described by lung cancer patients (median
(range): 7 min (0-600) vs 5 min (0.3-120), p = 0.002)). Frequency was similar and
most often daily in both groups. Severity and frequency of episodes were
correlated in lung cancer patients (r = 0.324, p = 0.009).
CONCLUSION: Most breathlessness episodes are short (minutes) and severe with
significant differences between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lung
cancer patients. Effective management strategies are warranted to improve symptom
relief and coping.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25634633  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


436. Retina. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

SAFETY PROFILE OF OCRIPLASMIN FOR THE PHARMACOLOGIC TREATMENT OF SYMPTOMATIC
VITREOMACULAR ADHESION/TRACTION.

Kaiser PK(1), Kampik A, Kuppermann BD, Girach A, Rizzo S, Sergott RC.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Ophthalmology, Cole Eye Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland,
Ohio; †Department of Ophthalmology, Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich,
Germany; ‡Retina Service, Gavin Herbert Eye Institute, University of California, 
Irvine, California; §NightstaRx Ltd., London, United Kingdom (formerly of
ThromboGenics NV); ¶Santa Chiara Hospital, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria
Pisana, Pisa, Italy; **Neuro-Ophthalmology Service at Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas 
Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and ††Optic Nerve Research
Center, Claymont, Delaware.

PURPOSE:: To report the safety of intravitreal ocriplasmin injection based on 2
Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with symptomatic vitreomacular
adhesion/vitreomacular traction, including when associated with full-thickness
macular holes.
METHODS:: Safety analyses were based on 2 completed Phase 3 studies assessing
intravitreal ocriplasmin injection. Adverse events (AEs), serious AEs, and
suspected adverse drug reactions are reported. The authors also report AEs of
special interest from 8 other completed Phase 2 studies and 2 ongoing studies.
RESULTS:: A total of 465 eyes were injected with ocriplasmin (125 µg), and 187
eyes were treated with placebo injection in Phase 3 studies. Overall AE rate was 
69.0% in the placebo group and 76.6% for ocriplasmin-treated patients. Most AEs
were in the study eye, mild or moderate in severity, and transient. All suspected
adverse drug reactions were ocular; the majority was nonserious, of mild
intensity, and transient.
CONCLUSION:: Intravitreal ocriplasmin injection provides a generally
well-tolerated pharmacologic treatment option for patients with symptomatic
vitreomacular adhesion/vitreomacular traction, including when associated with
full-thickness macular holes ≤400 µm in diameter.

PMID: 25635577  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


437. Rheumatol Int. 2015 Jan 29. [Epub ahead of print]

Labour force participation and the influence of having arthritis on financial
status.

Schofield DJ(1), Callander EJ, Shrestha RN, Percival R, Kelly SJ, Passey ME.

Author information: 
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, Locked Bag 77, Camperdown,
Sydney, NSW, 1450, Australia.

The objective of this study was to quantify the impact that having arthritis has 
on income poverty status and accumulated wealth in Australia. Cross-sectional
analysis of Health&WealthMOD, a microsimulation model built on data from the
Australian Bureau of Statistics' Survey of Disability, Ageing and Carers and
STINMOD, an income and savings microsimulation model. Across all categories of
labour force participation status (employed full time, part time or not in the
labour force at all), those with arthritis were significantly more likely to be
in poverty. Those employed full time with no health condition had 0.82 times the 
odds of being in income poverty (95 % CI 0.80-0.84) compared with those employed 
full time with arthritis. Those not in the labour force with no chronic health
conditions had 0.36 times the odds of being in income poverty compared with those
not in the labour force due to arthritis (95 % CI 0.36-0.37). For people not in
the labour force with no long-term health condition, the total value of their
wealth was 211 % higher (95 % CI 38-618 %) than the amount of wealth accumulated 
by those not in the labour force due to arthritis. Similarly, those employed part
time with no chronic health condition had 50 % more wealth than those employed
part time with arthritis (95 % CI 3-116 %). Arthritis has a profound impact upon 
the economic circumstances of individuals, which adds a further dimension to the 
detrimental living standards of older individuals suffering from the condition.

PMID: 25630522  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


438. Stat Med. 2015 Jan 29. doi: 10.1002/sim.6445. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of treatment efficacy using a Bayesian mixture piecewise linear model 
of longitudinal biomarkers.

Zhao L(1), Feng D, Neelon B, Buyse M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 48109, MI,
U.S.A.

Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a widely used marker in clinical trials for
patients with prostate cancer. We develop a mixture model to estimate
longitudinal PSA trajectory in response to treatment. The model accommodates
subjects responding and not responding to therapy through a mixture of two
functions. A responder is described by a piecewise linear function, represented
by an intercept, a PSA decline rate, a period of PSA decline, and a PSA rising
rate; a nonresponder is described by an increasing linear function with an
intercept and a PSA rising rate. Each trajectory is classified as a linear or a
piecewise linear function with a certain probability, and the weighted average of
these two functions sufficiently characterizes a variety of patterns of PSA
trajectories. Furthermore, this mixture structure enables us to derive clinically
useful endpoints such as a response rate and time-to-progression, as well as
biologically meaningful endpoints such as a cancer cell killing fraction and
tumor growth delay. We compare our model with the most commonly used dynamic
model in the literature and show its advantages. Finally, we illustrate our
approach using data from two multicenter prostate cancer trials. The R code used 
to produce the analyses reported in this paper is available on request. Copyright
© 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25630845  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


439. Vision Res. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S0042-6989(15)00021-8. doi:
10.1016/j.visres.2015.01.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Assessing the utility of visual acuity measures in visual prostheses.

Caspi A(1), Zivotofsky AZ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics, JCT-Lev Academic Center, Jerusalem, Israel;
Second Sight Medical Products, Inc., Sylmar, CA United States. (2)Brain Science
Program, Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel. Electronic address:
ari.zivotofsky@mail.biu.ac.il.

There are presently several ongoing clinical trials to provide usable sight to
profoundly visually impaired patients by means of electrical stimulation of the
retina. Some of the blind patients implanted with retinal prosthesis reported
un-patterned perception and yet benefit from the device in many activities of
daily living, seemingly because they adopt active scanning strategies. The aim of
the present work is to evaluate if and under what conditions a measured visual
acuity level is truly an indication that the brain perceived a patterned image
from the electrical stimulation of the visual prosthesis. Sighted subjects used a
pixelized simulator in which they perceived either a low resolution sub-sampling 
of the original image ("normal mode" - patterned vision) or an image that was
solely a function of the brightness and size of the original image ("brightness
mode" - no patterned vision). Results show that subjects were able to adopt a
head scanning strategy that enabled acuity beyond the resolution set by a static 
view of the stimulus. In brightness mode, i.e. without patterned vision, most
subjects achieved a measurable acuity level better than the limit set by the
geometrical resolution of the entire array but worse than the limit set by the
distance between neighboring simulated pixels. In normal mode all subject
achieved acuity level that is better than the geometrical resolution of the
simulated pixels. Thus, visual acuity levels comparable with the
electrodes/pixels resolution implies that the patient perceives an image with
spatial patterns.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637855  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


440. Vision Res. 2015 Jan 29. pii: S0042-6989(15)00008-5. doi:
10.1016/j.visres.2015.01.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Stereopsis and amblyopia: A mini-review.

Levi DM(1), Knill DC(2), Bavelier D(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Optometry, Graduate Group in Vision Science and Helen Wills
Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA
94720-2020, USA. Electronic address: dlevi@berkeley.edu. (2)Department of Brain &
Cognitive Sciences, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627-0268, USA;
Center for Visual Science, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627-0268,
USA. (3)Department of Brain & Cognitive Sciences, University of Rochester,
Rochester, NY 14627-0268, USA; Center for Visual Science, University of
Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627-0268, USA; Psychology and Education Sciences
(FPSE), University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

Amblyopia is a neuro-developmental disorder of the visual cortex that arises from
abnormal visual experience early in life. Amblyopia is clinically important
because it is a major cause of vision loss in infants and young children.
Amblyopia is also of basic interest because it reflects the neural impairment
that occurs when normal visual development is disrupted. Amblyopia provides an
ideal model for understanding when and how brain plasticity may be harnessed for 
recovery of function. Over the past two decades there has been a rekindling of
interest in developing more effective methods for treating amblyopia, and for
extending the treatment beyond the critical period, as exemplified by new
clinical trials and new basic research studies. The focus of this review is on
stereopsis and its potential for recovery. Impaired stereoscopic depth perception
is the most common deficit associated with amblyopia under ordinary (binocular)
viewing conditions (Webber & Wood, 2005). Our review of the extant literature
suggests that this impairment may have a substantial impact on visuomotor tasks, 
difficulties in playing sports in children and locomoting safely in older adults.
Furthermore, impaired stereopsis may also limit career options for amblyopes.
Finally, stereopsis is more impacted in strabismic than in anisometropic
amblyopia. Our review of the various approaches to treating amblyopia (patching, 
perceptual learning, videogames) suggests that there are several promising new
approaches to recovering stereopsis in both anisometropic and strabismic
amblyopes. However, recovery of stereoacuity may require more active treatment in
strabismic than in anisometropic amblyopia. Individuals with strabismic amblyopia
have a very low probability of improvement with monocular training; however they 
fare better with dichoptic training than with monocular training, and even better
with direct stereo training.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637854  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


441. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1111/apt.13095. [Epub ahead of
print]

Virological outcomes and treatment algorithms utilisation in observational study 
of patients with chronic hepatitis C treated with boceprevir or telaprevir.

Sterling RK(1), Kuo A, Rustgi VK, Sulkowski MS, Stewart TG, Fenkel JM, El-Genaidi
H, Mah'moud MA, Abraham GM, Stewart PW, Akushevich L, Nelson DR, Fried MW, Di
Bisceglie AM.

Author information: 
(1)Virginia Commonwealth University Health System, Richmond, VA, USA.

BACKGROUND: HCV-TARGET is a longitudinal observational study of chronic hepatitis
C virus (HCV) patients treated with direct-acting anti-viral agents (DAAs) in a
US consortium of 90 academic and community medical centres.
AIM: To assess utilisation of response-guided therapy (RGT) and sustained
virological response (SVR) of a large cohort of patients.
METHODS: Patients received peginterferon (PEG-IFN), ribavirin and either
telaprevir or boceprevir. Demographical, clinical and virological data were
collected during treatment and follow-up. RGT and treatment futility stopping
rules was assessed at key time points.
RESULTS: Of 2084 patients, 38% had cirrhosis and 56% had received prior treatment
for HCV. SVR rates were 31% (95% CI: 24-40) and 50% (95% CI: 44-56) in boceprevir
patients with and without cirrhosis, respectively. SVR rates were 46% (95% CI:
42-50) and 60% (95% CI: 57-64) in telaprevir patients with and without cirrhosis,
respectively. Early clearance of virus, IL28B genotype, platelet counts and
diabetes were identified as predictors of SVR among boceprevir patients, while
early clearance of virus, IL28B, cirrhosis, HCV subtype, age, haemoglobin,
bilirubin and albumin levels were identified as predictors of SVR for telaprevir 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In academic and community centres, triple therapy including
boceprevir or telaprevir led to SVR rates somewhat lower than those noted in
large phase 3 clinical trials. Response rates were consistently higher among
patients without cirrhosis compared to those with cirrhosis regardless of DAA
used and prior treatment response. Trial registration clinicaltrials.gov
NCT01474811.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25627020  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


442. Allergy. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1111/all.12583. [Epub ahead of print]

The role of circulating 25 hydroxyvitamin D in asthma: a systematic review.

Cassim R(1), Russell MA, Lodge CJ, Lowe AJ, Koplin JJ, Dharmage SC.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria, 3052, Australia.

Asthma is a major public health issue. The co-occurrence of the high prevalence
of asthma and vitamin D deficiency documented globally in recent decades has
prompted several investigations into a possible association between the two
conditions. The objective of this paper was to synthesise the evidence from
studies that have measured the association between serum vitamin D and asthma
incidence, prevalence, severity and exacerbations. A systematic search of the
literature was performed in Pubmed, and the available evidence was summarised
both qualitatively and by meta-analysis. Only English language, observational
studies measuring serum levels of 25(OH)D as the exposure were included, as this 
is the most robust measure of vitamin D levels. The search identified
twenty-three manuscripts: two case-control, twelve cohort and nine
cross-sectional studies. Collectively, the evidence suggests that higher serum
levels of 25(OH)D are associated with a reduced risk of asthma exacerbations, but
there was little evidence to suggest an association with asthma incidence,
prevalence or severity. A significant amount of heterogeneity between study
methodology and results restricted the scope for meta-analysis. These results
suggest that vitamin D supplementation may be effective for the prevention of
asthma exacerbations but the findings need to be confirmed by clinical trials.
This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25631639  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


443. Ann Oncol. 2015 Jan 28. pii: mdv036. [Epub ahead of print]

Changes in the influence of lymphoma- and HIV-specific factors on outcomes in
AIDS-related Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma.

Barta SK(1), Samuel MS(2), Xue X(3), Wang D(3), Lee JY(4), Mounier N(5), Ribera
JM(6), Spina M(7), Tirelli U(7), Weiss R(8), Galicier L(9), Boue F(10), Little
RF(11), Dunleavy K(12), Wilson WH(12), Wyen C(13), Remick SC(14), Kaplan LD(15), 
Ratner L(16), Noy A(17), Sparano JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, Department of Medical Oncology, Philadelphia, PA,
USA. (2)Montefiore Medical Center, Department of Medical Oncology, Bronx, NY,
USA. (3)Albert Einstein Cancer Center, Department of Epidemiology and Population 
Health, Bronx, NY, USA. (4)University of Arkansas, Department of Biostatiistics, 
Little Rock, AR, USA. (5)Groupe d'Etude des Lymphomes de l'Adulte (GELA), France.
(6)ICO-Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Jose Carreras Research Institute and
PETHEMA Group, Badalona, Spain. (7)National Cancer Institute, Medical Oncology,
Aviano, Italy. (8)Private Practice for Hematology & Oncology, Bremen, Germany.
(9)Hopital St Louis, Assistance Publique-Hopitaux de Paris, Department of
Immunology, Paris, France. (10)Hopital Antoine Beclere, Dept. of Internal
Medicine and Immunology, Clamart, France. (11)National Cancer Institute, Clinical
Investigations Branch, Bethesda, MD, USA. (12)National Cancer Institute, Medical 
Oncology, Bethesda, MD, USA. (13)University Hospital Cologne, Dept. of Internal
Medicine, Cologne, Germany. (14)Mary Babb Randolph Cancer Center, Dept. of
Hematology & Oncology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV, USA.
(15)University of California San Francisco, Dept. of Hematology & Oncology, San
Francisco, CA, USA. (16)Washington University School of Medicine, Division of
Oncology, St Louis MO, USA. (17)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Weill 
Cornell, Lymphoma Service, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: We undertook the present analysis to examine the shifting influence
of prognostic factors in HIV-positive patients diagnosed with aggressive
Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) over the last two decades.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a pooled analysis from an existing database of
patients with AIDS-related lymphoma. Individual patient data had been obtained
prior from prospective phase II or III clinical trials performed between 1990
until 2010 in North America and Europe that studied chemo(immuno)therapy in
HIV-positive patients diagnosed with AIDS-related lymphomas. Studies had been
identified by a systematic review. We analyzed patient-level data for 1546
patients with AIDS-related lymphomas using logistic regression and
Cox-proportional hazard models to identify the association of patient-, lymphoma-
and HIV-specific variables with the outcomes complete response, progression-free 
survival and overall survival in different eras: pre-cART (1989-1995), early cART
(1996-2000), recent cART (2001-2004) and contemporary cART era (2005-2010).
RESULTS: Outcomes for patients with AIDS-related diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
and Burkitt lymphoma improved significantly over time, irrespective of baseline
CD4 count or age-adjusted International Prognostic Index (IPI) risk category.
Two-year overall survival was best in the contemporary era: 67% and 75% compared 
with 24 and 37% in the pre-cART era (P<0.001). While the age-adjusted IPI was a
significant predictor of outcome in all time periods, the influence of other
factors waxed and waned. Individual HIV-related factors such as low CD4 counts
(<50 /mm(3)) and prior history of AIDS were no longer associated with poor
outcomes in the contemporary era.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate a significant improvement of complete
response rate and survival for all patients with AIDS-related lymphomas.
Effective HIV-directed therapies reduce the impact of HIV-related prognostic
factors on outcomes and allow curative anti-lymphoma therapy for the majority of 
patients with aggressive NHL.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25632071  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


444. Ann Oncol. 2015 Jan 28. pii: mdv033. [Epub ahead of print]

A Phase II study of SB939, a novel pan-histone deacetylase inhibitor, in patients
with translocation-associated recurrent/metastatic sarcomas -NCIC-CTG IND 200.

Chu QS(1), Nielsen TO(2), Alcindor T(3), Gupta A(4), Endo M(5), Goytain A(2), Xu 
H(6), Verma S(7), Tozer R(8), Knowling M(2), Bramwell VB(9), Powers J(6), Seymour
LK(6), Eisenhauer EA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Division of Medical Oncology, Cross Cancer Institute, 
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. (2)Department of Pathology, British
Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, Canada. (3)Department of Oncology, Division of
Medical Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, Canada. (4)Department of Oncology,
Division of Medical Oncology, Mount Sinai Hospital/Princess Margaret Hospital,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. (5)Department of Orthopedic Surgery,
Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan. (6)Investigational New Drug Program,
NCIC-Clinical Trials Group, Kingston, Canada. (7)Department of Medical Oncology, 
Ottawa Cancer Centre, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. (8)Department of
Oncology, Division of Medical Oncology, Jurvinski cancer Centre, McMaster
University, Hamilton, Canada. (9)Department of Oncology, Division of Medical
Oncology, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.

BACKGROUND: A subgroup of sarcomas is characterized by defining chromosomal
translocations, creating fusion transcription factor oncogenes. Resultant fusion 
oncoproteins associate with chromatin modifying complexes containing histone
deacetylases (HDAC), and lead to epigenetic transcriptional dysregulation. HDAC
inhibitors were shown to be effective in vitro, reversing gene repression by
these complexes, restoring PTEN expression and apoptosis via the PI3K/Akt/mTOR
pathway.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: SB939 is an oral inhibitor of classes 1 and 2 HDAC.
Eligible patients with recurrent or metastatic translocation-associated sarcoma
(TAS) by local pathology were treated with 60 mg/day every other day for 3 out of
4 weeks. Central pathology review was conducted with fusion oncogenes
characterized, and HDAC2 expression correlated with efficacy in pre-specified
methods.
RESULTS: Twenty-two patients were treated with a median of 2 cycles. Fourteen
patients were evaluable for response with confirmed specific chromosomal
translocations; 8 had a best response of stable disease (SD) (median duration 5.4
months) with no confirmed objective responses. The 3-month progression-free
survival (PFS) rate was 49%. Among those with HDAC2 score >5, 7/10 had SD, vs.
0/3 with HDAC2 score <5. SB939 was considered as well tolerated with <10%
patients experienced >grade 3 toxicity.
CONCLUSION: This study was stopped prematurely due to prolonged unavailability of
SB939. No objective responses were seen. Though the observed SD in HDAC2 high
patients was interesting, due to the small sample size, no definitive conclusion 
can be drawn about the efficacy of SB939 in this patient population.
(NCT01112384).

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25632070  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


445. Ann Oncol. 2015 Jan 28. pii: mdv035. [Epub ahead of print]

A KRAS mutation status-stratified randomized phase II trial of gemcitabine and
oxaliplatin alone or in combination with cetuximab in advanced biliary tract
cancer.

Chen JS(1), Hsu C(2), Chiang NJ(3), Tsai CS(4), Tsou HH(5), Huang SF(6), Bai
LY(7), Chang IC(6), Shiah HS(8), Ho CL(9), Yen CJ(10), Lee KD(11), Chiu CF(7),
Rau KM(12), Yu MS(13), Yang Y(14), Hsieh RK(15), Chang JY(16), Shan YS(17), Chao 
Y(18), Chen LT(3); on behalf of the Taiwan Cooperative Oncology Group.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Linkou
Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University Hospital and National
Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan. (3)National Institute of
Cancer Research, National Health Research Institutes, Tainan, Taiwan Division of 
Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung
University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung
Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Tainan
Municipal Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan. (5)Institute of Population Health Sciences,
Division of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, National Health Research
Institutes, Miaoli, Taiwan. (6)Institute of Molecular and Genomic Medicine,
National Health Research Institutes, Miaoli, Taiwan. (7)Division of Hematology
and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, China Medical University Hospital,
Taichung, Taiwan. (8)Taipei Cancer Center, Taipei Medical University Hospital,
Taipei, Taiwan. (9)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Internal
Medicine, Tri-Service General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. (10)Division of
Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung
University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan. (11)Division of Hematology/Oncology,
Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan.
(12)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang
Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. (13)Division of Hematology and
Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung Veterans General Hospital,
Kaohsiung, Taiwan. (14)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of
Internal Medicine, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(15)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, MacKay 
Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. (16)National Institute of Cancer Research,
National Health Research Institutes, Tainan, Taiwan Division of Hematology and
Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University
Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan. (17)Department of Surgery, National Cheng Kung
University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan. (18)Cancer Center, Taipei Veterans General
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Previous clinical trials have not proved that adding epidermal growth
factor receptor inhibitors to chemotherapy confers a survival benefit for
patients with advanced biliary tract cancer (ABTC). Whether the KRAS mutation
status of tumor cells confounded the results of past studies is unknown.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: ABTC patients stratified by KRAS status, Eastern
Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, and primary tumor location were
randomized 1:1 to receive GEMOX (800 mg/m(2) gemcitabine and 85 mg/m(2)
oxaliplatin) or C-GEMOX (500 mg/m(2) cetuximab plus GEMOX) every 2 weeks. The
primary endpoint was objective response rate (ORR).
RESULTS: The study enrolled 122 patients between December 2010 and May 2012 (62
treated with C-GEMOX and 60 with GEMOX). Compared to GEMOX alone, C-GEMOX was
associated with trend to better ORR (27% vs. 15%; p=0.12) and progression-free
survival (PFS, 6.7 vs. 4.1 months; p=0.05), but not overall survival (OS, 10.6
vs. 9.8 months; p=0.91). KRAS mutations, which were detected in 36% of tumor
samples, did not affect the trends of difference in ORR and PFS between C-GEMOX
and GEMOX. The two treatment arms had similar adverse events, except that more
patients had skin rashes, allergic reactions, and neutropenia in the C-GEMOX arm.
Of patients with C-GEMOX, the presence of a grade 2 or 3 skin rash was associated
with significantly better ORR, PFS, and OS.
CONCLUSIONS: Addition of cetuximab did not significantly improve the ORR of GEMOX
chemotherapy in ABTC, although a trend of PFS improvement was observed. The trend
of improvement did not correlate with KRAS mutation status.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25632066  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


446. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2015 Jan 28. pii: S0003-9993(15)00090-8. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2015.01.014. [Epub ahead of print]

The incidence and time path of lymphedema in sentinel negative breast cancer
patients: a systematic review.

Gebruers N(1), Verbelen H(1), De Vrieze T(2), Coeck D(3), Tjalma W(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences and Physiotherapy, Faculty of Medicine
and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp,
Belgium. Electronic address: nick.gebruers@uantwerpen.be. (2)Department of
Rehabilitation Sciences and Physiotherapy, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium.
Electronic address: tessadevrieze@hotmail.com. (3)Department of Rehabilitation
Sciences and Physiotherapy, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University
of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium. Electronic address:
dorith_c@hotmail.com. (4)Multidisciplinary Breast Clinic, Antwerp University
Hospital (UZA), Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Edegem, Belgium; Department of Medicine,
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp,
Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium. Electronic address:
wiebren.tjalma@uza.be.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically assess the incidence/prevalence and time path of
lymphedema in sentinel node negative breast cancer patients.
DATA SOURCES: A systematic literature search was performed using four different
electronic databases (Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Clinical Trials, WoS) until
November 2013.
STUDY SELECTION: Inclusion criteria were: 1) research studies that included
breast cancer patients who were surgically treated using the sentinel lymph node 
technique (SLNB), 2) sentinel node negative patients, 3) studies that
investigated lymphedema as a primary or secondary outcome, 4) data extraction for
incidence or time path of lymphedema was possible and 5) publication date
starting from 1(st) January 2001. Exclusion criteria were (1) reviews or case
studies, (2) patients who have had a SLNB followed by an axillary lymph node
dissection (ALND), (3) results of ALND-patients and SLNB-patients were not
described separately and (4) studies not written in English .
DATA EXTRACTION: after scoring the methodological quality of the selected
studies, the crude data concerning the incidence of lymphedema were extracted.
Data concerning the time points and the incidence of lymphedema were also
extracted.
DATA SYNTHESIS: 28 articles were included, representing 9,588 SLNB negative
patients. The overall incidence of lymphedema in sentinel node negative breast
cancer patients ranged from 0% to 63.4%. The studies that have assessed
lymphedema at predefined time points, instead of a mean follow-up time,
demonstrated an incidence range at ≤3, 6, 12, 18 or > 18 months post-surgery of
3.2-5%, 2-10%, 3-63.4%, 6.6-7% and 6.9-8.2% respectively.
CONCLUSION: In SLNB-patients there is still a problem of lymphedema, if so it
mostly occurs 6 to 12 months after surgery. Due to different assessments and
criteria there is a wide range in incidence. Clear definitions of lymphedema are 
absolutely necessary to tailor therapy.

Copyright © 2015 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637862  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


447. Biom J. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1002/bimj.201300254. [Epub ahead of print]

A Bayesian approach to probabilistic sensitivity analysis in structured
benefit-risk assessment.

Waddingham E(1), Mt-Isa S, Nixon R, Ashby D.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Clinical Trials Unit, School of Public Health, Imperial College
London, St. Mary's Campus, Norfolk Place, London W2 1PG, UK.

Quantitative decision models such as multiple criteria decision analysis (MCDA)
can be used in benefit-risk assessment to formalize trade-offs between benefits
and risks, providing transparency to the assessment process. There is however no 
well-established method for propagating uncertainty of treatment effects data
through such models to provide a sense of the variability of the benefit-risk
balance. Here, we present a Bayesian statistical method that directly models the 
outcomes observed in randomized placebo-controlled trials and uses this to infer 
indirect comparisons between competing active treatments. The resulting treatment
effects estimates are suitable for use within the MCDA setting, and it is
possible to derive the distribution of the overall benefit-risk balance through
Markov Chain Monte Carlo simulation. The method is illustrated using a case study
of natalizumab for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.

© 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

PMID: 25631038  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


448. BMC Health Serv Res. 2015 Jan 28;15(1):40. [Epub ahead of print]

How to improve prescription of inhaled salbutamol by providing standardised
feedback on administration: a controlled intervention pilot study with follow-up.

Neininger MP, Kaune A, Bertsche A, Rink J, Musiol J, Frontini R, Prenzel F, Kiess
W, Bertsche T.

BackgroundThe effectiveness of inhaled salbutamol in routine care depends
particularly on prescribed dosage and applied inhalation technique. To achieve
maximum effectiveness and to prevent drug-related problems, prescription and
administration need to work in concert.MethodsWe performed a controlled
intervention pilot study with 4 consecutive groups in a general paediatric unit
and assessed problems in salbutamol prescribing and administration. Control group
[i]: Routine care without additional support. First intervention group [ii]: We
carried out a teaching session for nurses aimed at preventing problems in
inhalation technique. Independently from this, a pharmacist counselled physicians
on problems in salbutamol prescribing. Second intervention group [iii]:
Additionally to the first intervention, physicians received standardised feedback
on the inhalation technique. Follow-up group [iv]: Subsequently, without any
delay after the second intervention group had been completed, sustainability of
the measures was assessed. We performed the chi-square test to calculate the
level of significance with p¿¿¿0.05 to indicate a statistically significant
difference for the primary outcome. As we performed multiple testing, an adjusted
p¿¿¿0.01 according to Bonferroni correction was considered as
significant.ResultsWe included a total of 225 patients. By counselling the
physicians, we reduced the number of patients with problems from 55% to 43%
(control [i] vs. first intervention [ii], n.s.). With additional feedback to
physicians, this number was further reduced to 25% ([i] vs. [iii], p¿<¿0.001). In
the follow-up [iv], the number rose again to 48% (p¿<¿0.01 compared to feedback
group).ConclusionsTeaching nurses, counselling physicians, and providing feedback
on the quality of inhalation technique effectively reduced problems in salbutamol
treatment. However, for success to be sustained, continuous support needs to be
provided.Trial registrationGerman Clinical Trials register: DRKS00006792.

PMCID: PMC4314799
PMID: 25627678  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


449. BMC Nephrol. 2015 Jan 28;16(1):6. [Epub ahead of print]

A personalized follow-up of kidney transplant recipients using video conferencing
based on a 1-year scoring system predictive of long term graft failure (TELEGRAFT
study): protocol for a randomized controlled trial.

Foucher Y, Meurette A, Daguin P, Bonnaud-Antignac A, Hardouin JB, Chailan S, Neau
K, Papuchon E, Gaboriau S, Legendre C, Morélon E, Tessier P, Giral M.

BACKGROUND: Numerous well-established clinical parameters are taken into
consideration for the follow-up adaptation of kidney transplant recipients, but
there are important disparities between countries, centres and clinicians.
Therefore, novel scoring systems have been developed, for instance the Kidney
Transplant Failure Score (KTFS) which aims to stratify patients according to
their risk of return to dialysis. We hypothesize that the efficiency of the
follow-up after one year post-transplantation can be improved by adapting it to
the risk of graft failure defined by the KTFS estimation.Methods/design: We
propose a phase IV, open label, randomized, multicentric and prospective study.
The study is registered with the Clinical Trials Registry NCT01615900. 250
patients will be allocated to one of two arms: the eHealth program versus the
standard of care at hospital. In the standard group, patients classified at
low-risk (KTFS <= 4.17) will be scheduled 4 visits at hospital per year, whilst
high-risk patients will visit hospital 6 times. In the eHealth group, patients
classified at low-risk will be interviewed 3 times by video conferencing and once
at hospital, whilst 6 visits at hospital and 6 video conferencing will be
scheduled for high-risk patients.
DISCUSSION: The current study allows to scientifically evaluate the etiologic
impact of a novel eHealth program. This is important to clarify the possible
contribution of telemedicine in the improvement of medical follow-up. The
proposed design based on 4 different sub-groups can be interesting to evaluate
other personalized medicine programs.

PMID: 25631635  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


450. Clin Trials. 2015 Jan 28. pii: 1740774514568688. [Epub ahead of print]

Assessing the quality of human research protection programs to improve protection
of human subjects participating in clinical trials.

Tsan MF(1), Tsan LW(2).

Author information: 
(1)McGuire Research Institute and Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Richmond, VA, 
USA minfu.tsan@gmail.com. (2)McGuire Research Institute and Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, Richmond, VA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Institutions conducting research involving human subjects establish
human research protection programs to ensure the rights and welfare of research
participants as well as to meet ethical and regulatory requirements. It is
important to determine whether human research protection programs have achieved
these objectives.
METHODS: The Department of Veterans Affairs has developed quality indicators and 
annually collected human research protection program quality indicator data from 
its 108 research facilities since 2010.
RESULTS: Analysis of Department of Veterans Affairs human research protection
program quality indicator data revealed that facilities using affiliated
university institutional review boards performed as well as those using their own
Department of Veterans Affairs institutional review boards and that facilities
with small research programs, that is, less than 50 human research protocols,
performed at least as well as those with larger research programs. These quality 
indicator data also provided Department of Veterans Affairs facilities with
valuable information for quality improvement. Many of these quality indicators
have improved in subsequent years, and none has deteriorated. Lapse rates in
institutional review board continuing reviews remained high and relatively
constant at above 6.0% over a 4-year period from 2010 through 2013.
DISCUSSION: Future efforts should be directed at developing a set of human
research protection program quality indicators truly reflecting the quality of
human research protection programs that are applicable to both Department of
Veterans Affairs and non-Department of Veterans Affairs institutions and
determining whether high-quality human research protection programs as measured
using these quality indicators translate into better human subject protections.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25631384  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


451. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 28;1:CD005614. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD005614.pub2.

Chondroitin for osteoarthritis.

Singh JA(1), Noorbaloochi S, MacDonald R, Maxwell LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Birmingham VA Medical Center, Faculty Office Tower
805B, 510 20th Street South, Birmingham, AL, USA, 35294.

BACKGROUND: Osteoarthritis, a common joint disorder, is one of the leading causes
of disability. Chondroitin has emerged as a new treatment. Previous meta-analyses
have shown contradictory results on the efficacy of chondroitin. This, in
addition to the publication of more trials, necessitates a systematic review.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the benefit and harm of oral chondroitin for treating
osteoarthritis compared with placebo or a comparator oral medication including,
but not limited to, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), analgesics,
opioids, and glucosamine or other "herbal" medications.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched seven databases up to November 2013, including the
Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Ovid MEDLINE, CINAHL,
EMBASE, Science Citation Index (Web of Science) and Current Controlled Trials. We
searched the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Agency 
(EMEA) websites for adverse effects. Trial registers were not searched.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomized or quasi-randomized clinical trials lasting
longer than two weeks, studying adults with osteoarthritis in any joint, and
comparing chondroitin with placebo, an active control such as NSAIDs, or other
"herbal" supplements such as glucosamine.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently performed all
title assessments, data extractions, and risk of bias assessments.
MAIN RESULTS: Forty-three randomized controlled trials including 4,962
participants treated with chondroitin and 4,148 participants given placebo or
another control were included. The majority of trials were in knee OA, with few
in hip and hand OA. Trial duration varied from 1 month to 3 years. Participants
treated with chondroitin achieved statistically significantly and clinically
meaningful better pain scores (0-100) in studies less than 6 months than those
given placebo with an absolute risk difference of 10% lower (95% confidence
interval (CI), 15% to 6% lower; number needed to treat (NNT) = 5 (95% CI, 3 to 8;
n = 8 trials) (level of evidence, low; risk of bias, high); but there was high
heterogeneity between the trials (T(2) = 0.07; I(2) = 70%, which was not easily
explained by differences in risk of bias or study sample size). In studies longer
than 6 months, the absolute risk difference for pain was 9% lower (95% CI 18%
lower to 0%); n = 6 trials; T(2) = 0.18; I(2) = 83% ), again with low level of
evidence.For the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index
Minimal Clinically Important Improvement (WOMAC MCII Pain subscale) outcome, a
reduction in knee pain by 20% was achieved by 53/100 in the chondroitin group
versus 47/100 in the placebo group, an absolute risk difference of 6% (95% CI 1% 
to 11%), (RR 1.12, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.24; T(2) = 0.00; I(2) = 0%) (n = 2 trials,
1253 participants; level of evidence, high; risk of bias, low).Differences in
Lequesne's index (composite of pain,function and disability) statistically
significantly favoured chondroitin as compared with placebo in studies under six 
months, with an absolute risk difference of 8% lower (95% CI 12% to 5% lower;
T(2)= 0.78; n = 7 trials) (level of evidence, moderate; risk of bias, unclear),
also clinically meaningful. Loss of minimum joint space width in the chondroitin 
group was statistically significantly less than in the placebo group, with a
relative risk difference of 4.7% less (95% CI 1.6% to 7.8% less; n = 2 trials)
(level of evidence, high; risk of bias, low). Chondroitin was associated with
statistically significantly lower odds of serious adverse events compared with
placebo with Peto odds ratio of 0.40 (95% CI 0.19 to 0.82; n = 6 trials) (level
of evidence, moderate). Chondroitin did not result in statistically significant
numbers of adverse events or withdrawals due to adverse events compared with
placebo or another drug. Adverse events were reported in a limited fashion, with 
some studies providing data and others not.Comparisons of chondroitin taken alone
or in combination with glucosamine or another supplement showed a statistically
significant reduction in pain (0-100) when compared with placebo or an active
control, with an absolute risk difference of 10% lower (95% CI 14% to 5% lower); 
NNT = 4 (95% CI 3 to 6); T(2) = 0.33; I(2) = 91%; n = 17 trials) (level of
evidence, low). For physical function, chondroitin in combination with
glucosamine or another supplement showed no statistically significant difference 
from placebo or an active control, with an absolute risk difference of 1% lower
(95% CI 6% lower to 3% higher with T(2) = 0.04; n = 5 trials) (level of evidence,
moderate). Differences in Lequesne's index statistically significantly favoured
chondroitin as compared with placebo, with an absolute risk difference of 8%
lower (95% CI, 12% to 4% lower; T(2) = 0.12; n = 10 trials) (level of evidence,
moderate). Chondroitin in combination with glucosamine did not result in
statistically significant differences in the numbers of adverse events,
withdrawals due to adverse events, or in the numbers of serious adverse events
compared with placebo or with an active control.The beneficial effects of
chondroitin in pain and Lequesne's index persisted when evidence was limited to
studies with adequate blinding or studies that used appropriate intention to
treat (ITT) analyses. These beneficial effects were uncertain when we limited
data to studies with appropriate allocation concealment or a large study sample
(> 200) or to studies without pharmaceutical funding.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: A review of randomized trials of mostly low quality reveals
that chondroitin (alone or in combination with glucosamine) was better than
placebo in improving pain in participants with osteoarthritis in short-term
studies. The benefit was small to moderate with an 8 point greater improvement in
pain (range 0 to 100) and a 2 point greater improvement in Lequesne's index
(range 0 to 24), both seeming clinically meaningful. These differences persisted 
in some sensitivity analyses and not others. Chondroitin had a lower risk of
serious adverse events compared with control. More high-quality studies are
needed to explore the role of chondroitin in the treatment of osteoarthritis. The
combination of some efficacy and low risk associated with chondroitin may explain
its popularity among patients as an over-the-counter supplement.

PMID: 25629804  [PubMed - in process]


452. Crit Rev Microbiol. 2015 Jan 28:1-12. [Epub ahead of print]

Recent developments in therapeutic applications of Cyanobacteria.

Raja R(1), Hemaiswarya S, Ganesan V, Carvalho IS.

Author information: 
(1)Food Science Lab, Faculty of Sciences and Technology, University of Algarve , 
Faro , Portugal and.

Abstract The cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) are photosynthetic prokaryotes
having applications in human health with numerous biological activities and as a 
dietary supplement. It is used as a food supplement because of its richness in
nutrients and digestibility. Many cyanobacteria (Microcystis sp, Anabaena sp,
Nostoc sp, Oscillatoria sp., etc.) produce a great variety of secondary
metabolites with potent biological activities. Cyanobacteria produce biologically
active and chemically diverse compounds belonging to cyclic peptides,
lipopeptides, fatty acid amides, alkaloids and saccharides. More than 50% of the 
marine cyanobacteria are potentially exploitable for extracting bioactive
substances which are effective in killing cancer cells by inducing apoptotic
death. Their role as anti-viral, anti-tumor, antimicrobial, anti-HIV and a food
additive have also been well established. However, such products are at different
stages of clinical trials and only a few compounds have reached to the market.

PMID: 25629310  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


453. Eur J Hum Genet. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2014.281. [Epub ahead of print]

Huntington's disease biomarker progression profile identified by transcriptome
sequencing in peripheral blood.

Mastrokolias A(1), Ariyurek Y(2), Goeman JJ(3), van Duijn E(4), Roos RA(5), van
der Mast RC(6), van Ommen GB(1), den Dunnen JT(7), 't Hoen PA(1), van Roon-Mom
WM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The
Netherlands. (2)Leiden Genome Technology Center, Leiden University Medical
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. (3)1] Department of Medical Statistics and
Bioinformatics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands [2]
Department for Health Evidence, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. (4)1] Department of Psychiatry, Leiden University Medical Center,
Leiden, The Netherlands [2] Center for Mental Health Care Delfland, Jorisweg 2,
Delft, The Netherlands. (5)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical
Centre, RC, Leiden, The Netherlands. (6)Department of Psychiatry, Leiden
University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. (7)1] Department of Human
Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands [2] Leiden
Genome Technology Center, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The
Netherlands.

With several therapeutic approaches in development for Huntington's disease,
there is a need for easily accessible biomarkers to monitor disease progression
and therapy response. We performed next-generation sequencing-based transcriptome
analysis of total RNA from peripheral blood of 91 mutation carriers (27
presymptomatic and, 64 symptomatic) and 33 controls. Transcriptome analysis by
DeepSAGE identified 167 genes significantly associated with clinical total motor 
score in Huntington's disease patients. Relative to previous studies, this
yielded novel genes and confirmed previously identified genes, such as H2AFY, an 
overlap in results that has proven difficult in the past. Pathway analysis showed
enrichment of genes of the immune system and target genes of miRNAs, which are
downregulated in Huntington's disease models. Using a highly parallelized
microfluidics array chip (Fluidigm), we validated 12 of the top 20 significant
genes in our discovery cohort and 7 in a second independent cohort. The five
genes (PROK2, ZNF238, AQP9, CYSTM1 and ANXA3) that were validated independently
in both cohorts present a candidate biomarker panel for stage determination and
therapeutic readout in Huntington's disease. Finally we suggest a first empiric
formula predicting total motor score from the expression levels of our biomarker 
panel. Our data support the view that peripheral blood is a useful source to
identify biomarkers for Huntington's disease and monitor disease progression in
future clinical trials.European Journal of Human Genetics advance online
publication, 28 January 2015; doi:10.1038/ejhg.2014.281.

PMID: 25626709  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


454. Exp Cell Res. 2015 Jan 28. pii: S0014-4827(15)00022-1. doi:
10.1016/j.yexcr.2015.01.009. [Epub ahead of print]

AXL as a modulator of sunitinib response in glioblastoma cell lines.

Martinho O(1), Zucca LE(2), Reis RM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), Health Sciences School,
University of Minho, Braga, Portugal; ICVS/3B's-PT Government Associate
Laboratory, Braga/Guimarães, Portugal; Molecular Oncology Research Center,
Barretos Cancer Hospital, Barretos, São Paulo, Brazil. (2)Molecular Oncology
Research Center, Barretos Cancer Hospital, Barretos, São Paulo, Brazil. (3)Life
and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), Health Sciences School, University
of Minho, Braga, Portugal; ICVS/3B's-PT Government Associate Laboratory,
Braga/Guimarães, Portugal; Molecular Oncology Research Center, Barretos Cancer
Hospital, Barretos, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address:
rreis@ecsaude.uminho.pt.

Receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) targeted therapy has been explored for
glioblastoma treatment. However, it is unclear which RTK inhibitors are the most 
effective and there are no predictive biomarkers available. We recently
identified the RTK AXL as a putative target for the pan-RTK inhibitors cediranib 
and sunitinib, which are under clinical trials for glioblastoma patients. Here,
we provide evidence that AXL activity can modulate sunitinib response in
glioblastoma cell lines. We found that AXL knockdown conferred lower sensitivity 
to sunitinib by rescuing migratory defects and inhibiting apoptosis in cells
expressing high AXL basal levels. Accordingly, overactivation of AXL by its
ligand GAS6 rendered AXL positive glioblastoma cells more sensitive to sunitinib.
AXL knockdown induced a cellular rewiring of several growth signaling pathways
through activation of RTKs, such as EGFR, as well as intracellular pathways such 
as MAPK and AKT. The combination of sunitinib with a specific AKT inhibitor
reverted the resistance of AXL-silenced cells to sunitinib. Together, our results
suggest that sunitinib inhibits AXL and AXL activation status modulates therapy
response of glioblastoma cells to sunitinib. Moreover, it indicates that
combining sunitinib therapy with AKT pathway inhibitors could overcome sunitinib 
resistance.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637219  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


455. Fertil Steril. 2015 Jan 28. pii: S0015-0282(14)02556-4. doi:
10.1016/j.fertnstert.2014.12.125. [Epub ahead of print]

Timing luteal support in assisted reproductive technology: a systematic review.

Connell MT(1), Szatkowski JM(1), Terry N(2), DeCherney AH(1), Propst AM(3), Hill 
MJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Reproductive and Adult Endocrinology, Eunice Kennedy Shriver
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, Maryland. (2)National Institutes of Health Library, Bethesda,
Maryland. (3)Texas Fertility Center, Austin, Texas. (4)Program in Reproductive
and Adult Endocrinology, Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland. 
Electronic address: hillmicah@mail.nih.gov.

OBJECTIVE: To summarize the available published randomized controlled trial data 
regarding timing of P supplementation during the luteal phase of patients
undergoing assisted reproductive technology (ART).
DESIGN: A systematic review.
SETTING: Not applicable.
PATIENT(S): Undergoing IVF.
INTERVENTION(S): Different starting times of P for luteal support.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Clinical pregnancy (PR) and live birth rates.
RESULT(S): Five randomized controlled trials were identified that met inclusion
criteria with a total of 872 patients. A planned meta-analysis was not performed 
because of a high degree of clinical heterogeneity with regard to the timing,
dose, and route of P. Two studies compared P initiated before oocyte retrieval
versus the day of oocyte retrieval and PRs were 5%-12% higher when starting P on 
the day of oocyte retrieval. One study compared starting P on day 6 after
retrieval versus day 3, reporting a 16% decrease in pregnancy in the day 6 group.
Trials comparing P start times on the day of oocyte retrieval versus 2 or 3 days 
after retrieval showed no significant differences in pregnancy.
CONCLUSION(S): There appears to be a window for P start time between the evening 
of oocyte retrieval and day 3 after oocyte retrieval. Although some studies have 
suggested a potential benefit in delaying vaginal P start time to 2 days after
oocyte retrieval, this review could not find randomized controlled trials to
adequately assess this. Further randomized clinical trials are needed to better
define P start time for luteal support after ART.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25638420  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


456. Gynecol Oncol. 2015 Jan 28. pii: S0090-8258(15)00584-3. doi:
10.1016/j.ygyno.2015.01.541. [Epub ahead of print]

Detection of DNA mismatch repair (MMR) deficiencies by immunohistochemistry can
effectively diagnose the microsatellite instability (MSI) phenotype in
endometrial carcinomas.

McConechy MK(1), Talhouk A(2), Li-Chang HH(2), Leung S(3), Huntsman DG(2), Gilks 
CB(2), McAlpine JN(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British
Columbia and BC Cancer Agency, 509-2660 Oak Street, Vancouver V6H 3Z6, BC,
Canada; Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Division of Gynecologic
Oncology, University of British Columbia, 2775 Laurel St. 6(th) Floor, Vancouver 
V5Z 1M9, BC, Canada. (2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
University of British Columbia and BC Cancer Agency, 509-2660 Oak Street,
Vancouver V6H 3Z6, BC, Canada. (3)Genetic Pathology Evaluation Centre, Department
of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, 509-2660
Oak Street, Vancouver V6H 3Z6, BC, Canada. (4)Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia and BC Cancer Agency,
509-2660 Oak Street, Vancouver V6H 3Z6, BC, Canada. Electronic address:
jessica.mcalpine@vch.ca.

BACKGROUND: A proportion of endometrial carcinomas (ECs) are associated with
deficient DNA mismatch repair (MMR). These tumors are characterized by high
levels of microsatellite instability (MSI). Identification of MSI is important in
identifying women who should be tested for Lynch syndrome and identifying a
phenotype that may have specific prognostic and predictive implications. Genomic 
characterization of ECs has shown that MSI tumors form a distinct subgroup. The
two most common methodologies for MSI assessment have not been compared in EC.
METHODS: Pentaplex mononucleotide PCR for MSI testing was compared to MMR IHC
(presence/absence of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2) in a cohort of patients with EC.
Concordance, Kappa statistic, sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
predictive values were obtained on the cross-tabulation of results.
RESULTS: Comparison of both MSI and MMR status was complete for 89 cases. Overall
agreement between methods (concordance) was 93.3% (95% CI[85.9%-97.5%]). A
one-sided test to determine whether the accuracy is better than the "no
information rate," which is taken to be the largest class percentage in the data,
is significant (p<0.00001). Unweighted Kappa was 0.84, along with the sensitivity
(88.5%), specificity (95.2%), PPV (88.5%), and NPV (95.2%). The balanced accuracy
(i.e. the average between sensitivity and specificity) was 92%.
DISCUSSION: We show the equivalence of MSI testing and MMR IHC. We advocate the
implementation of MMR IHC in future EC classification schemes, enabling
stratification of cases for future clinical trials as well as assisting
identification of Lynch syndrome, so that screening and risk reducing
interventions can be undertaken.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25636458  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


457. Heart Rhythm. 2015 Jan 28. pii: S1547-5271(15)00067-3. doi:
10.1016/j.hrthm.2015.01.017. [Epub ahead of print]

Low inappropriate shock rates in patients with single and dual/triple chamber
ICDs using a novel suite of detection algorithms: PainFree SST Trial Primary
Results.

Auricchio A(1), Schloss EJ(2), Kurita T(3), Meijer A(4), Gerritse B(5), Zweibel
S(6), AlSmadi FM(7), Leng CT(8), Sterns LD(9); On behalf of the PainFree SST
Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Fondazione Cardiocentro Ticino, Lugano, Switzerland. Electronic address:
angelo.auricchio@cardiocentro.org. (2)The Christ Hospital/The Ohio Heart &
Vascular Center, Cincinnati, USA. (3)Kinki University School of Medicine, Osaka, 
Japan. (4)Catharina Ziekenhuis, Eindhoven, The Netherlands. (5)Medtronic Bakken
Research Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands. (6)Hartford Hospital, Hartford,
USA. (7)Prince Salman Heart Centre - King Fahad Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia. (8)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA. (9)Royal Jubilee
Hospital, Victoria, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The benefits of implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) have
been well demonstrated in many clinical trials and ICD shocks for ventricular
tachyarrhythmias save lives. However, inappropriate and unnecessary shock
delivery remains a significant clinical issue with considerable consequences for 
patients and healthcare system.
OBJECTIVE: The PainFree SmartShock Technology (SST) study investigated a new
generation ICDs to reduce inappropriate and unnecessary shocks through novel
discrimination algorithms with modern programming strategies.
METHODS: This prospective, multicentre clinical trial enrolled 2,790 patients
with approved indication for ICD implantation (79% male, mean age 65 years, 69%
primary prevention indication, 27% single chamber ICD, 33% replacement or
upgrade). Patients were followed for a minimum of 12 months and the mean
follow-up was 22 months. The primary endpoint of the study was the percentage of 
patients remaining free of inappropriate shocks at 1 year post implant, analysed 
separately for dual/triple-chamber (N=2,019) and single-chamber (N=751) ICDs.
RESULTS: The inappropriate shock rate at 1 year was 1.5% for patients with
dual/triple chamber ICDs and 2.5% for patients with single chamber devices. Two
years post implant, the inappropriate shock rate was 2.8% for patients with
dual/triple chamber and 3.7% for those with single chamber ICD. The most common
cause of an inappropriate shock in both groups was atrial fibrillation or
flutter.
CONCLUSION: In a large patient cohort receiving ICDs for primary or secondary
prevention, the adoption of novel enhanced detection algorithms in conjunction
with routine implementation of modern programming strategies led to a very low
inappropriate shock rate.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION INFORMATION: This study is registered at
www.clinicaltrials.gov, number NCT00982397.

Copyright © 2015 Heart Rhythm Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25637563  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


458. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2015 Jan 28. pii: dku572. [Epub ahead of print]

Antibiotics: the changing regulatory and pharmaceutical industry paradigm.

Bax R(1), Green S(2).

Author information: 
(1)TranScrip Partners LLP, 400 Thames Valley Park, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT, UK
Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, King's College, London, UK
richard.bax@transcrip-partners.com. (2)TranScrip Partners LLP, 400 Thames Valley 
Park, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT, UK.

Drug licensing is changing. Previously, regulators prioritized the licensing of
innovative drugs that fulfilled a high unmet medical need for a small number of
patients, including orphan, cancer and HIV medicines. Alternatives to large and
costly prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical trials have led to a more
bespoke development, such as adaptive design studies. Regulators have recently
agreed to include much-needed narrow-spectrum antibiotics, active against certain
MDR bacteria, in this paradigm. The background to why big pharmaceutical
companies have largely deserted the antibacterial research arena, and the
proposals that are hoped to reinvigorate their interest, are presented.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25634991  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


459. J Biopharm Stat. 2015 Jan 28. [Epub ahead of print]

Some issues of sample size calculation for time-to-event endpoints using the
Freedman and Schoenfeld formulas.

Abel UR(1), Jensen K, Karapanagiotou-Schenkel I, Kieser M.

Author information: 
(1)a National Center for Tumor Diseases Heidelberg , Germany.

Abstract The paper deals with seven special issues related to the assumptions,
applicability and practical use of formulas for calculating power or sample size,
respectively, for comparative clinical trials with time-to-event endpoints, with 
particular focus on the well-known Freedman and Schoenfeld methods. All problems 
addressed are illustrated by numerical examples, and recommendations are given on
how to deal with them in the planning of clinical trials.

PMID: 25629760  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


460. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Jan 28. pii: S0378-8741(15)00015-X. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2015.01.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Persimmon (Diospyros kaki L.) leaves: A review on traditional uses,
phytochemistry and pharmacological properties.

Xie C(1), Xie Z(1), Xu X(2), Yang D(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, 510006 Guangzhou,
PR China. (2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, 510006
Guangzhou, PR China. Electronic address: xxj2702@sina.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Persimmon (Diospyros kaki L.) leaves, known as
Shi Ye (in Chinese), have a long history as a Chinese traditional medicine for
the treatment of ischemia stroke, angina, internal hemorrhage, hypertension,
atherosclerosis and some infectious diseases, etc. Additionally, persimmon leaves
could be used as healthy products, cosmetics and so on, which have become
increasingly popular in Asia, such as Japan, Korea and China etc.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: The present paper reviewed the ethnopharmacology,
phytochemistry, analytical methods, biological activities and toxicology of
persimmon leaves in order to assess the ethnopharmacological use and to explore
therapeutic potentials and future opportunities for research.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information on persimmon leaves were gathered via the
Internet (using Google Scholar, Baidu Scholar, Elsevier, ACS, Pudmed, Web of
Science, CNKI and EMBASE) and libraries. Additionally, information was also
obtained from some local books.
RESULTS: Persimmon leaves have played an important role in Chinese system of
medicines. The main compositions of persimmon leaves were flavonoids, terpenoids,
etc. Scientific studies on extracts and formulations revealed a wide range of
pharmacological activities, such as, antioxidative, hypolipidemic, antidiabetic, 
antibacterial, hemostasis activities and effects on cardiovascular system. Based 
on the pharmacological activities, persimmon leaves were widely used in clinic
including treatment of cardiovascular disease, hemostasis, antibacterial,
anti-inflammatory and beauty treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Persimmon leaves probably have therapeutic potential in the
prevention and treatment for cerebral arteriosclerosis, diabetes, hypertension.
It showed significant neuroprotection against ischemia/reperfusion injury in vivo
and in vitro. Moreover, it can regulate immune function and inhibite
inflammation. Further investigations are needed to explore individual bioactive
compounds responsible for these pharmacological effects in vitro and in vivo and 
the mode of actions. Further safety assessments and clinical trials should be
performed before it can be integrated into medicinal practices.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

PMID: 25637828  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


461. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1111/jphp.12373. [Epub ahead of print]

Characterisation of a novel oral iron chelator:
1-(N-Acetyl-6-Aminohexyl)-3-Hydroxy-2-Methylpyridin-4-one.

Pangjit K(1), Banjerdpongchai R, Phisalaphong C, Fucharoen S, Xie YY, Lu ZD,
Hider RC, Srichairatanakool S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Chiang
Mai, Thailand; College of Medicine and Public Health, Ubon Ratchathani
University, Chiang Mai, Thailand.

OBJECTIVES: Desferrioxamine (DFO), deferiprone (DFP) and deferasirox (DFX) are
iron chelators currently in clinical use for the treatment of iron overload. Due 
to difficulties with administration and associated side effects with these three 
molecules, the search continues for an efficient nontoxic orally active iron
chelator. This communication describes the properties of one such candidate,
1-(N-acetyl-6-aminohexyl)-3-hydroxy-2-methylpyridin-4-one (CM1).
METHODS: Physicochemical characterisation techniques, including partition
coefficient, pKa values and logK values for iron(III). Iron scavenging assays,
from iron citrate, nontransferrin bound iron and iron-loaded rats. Cytotoxicity
studies using white cells, hepatocytes and cardiomyocytes.
KEY FINDINGS: CM1 possesses high affinity and selectivity for iron(III) and a
suitable partition coefficient to permeate membranes. CM1 forms a neutral 3 : 1
iron(III) complex under physiological conditions and so, it is predicted to be
capable of entry into mammalian cells to scavenge excess intracellular iron and
to efflux from cells as the neutral 3 : 1 complex. CM1 is demonstrated to be
orally active and to possess a higher efficacy than DFP in rats. CM1 displays no 
toxicity to a range of cell types.
CONCLUSION: The above promising studies will be extended to monitor the
pharmacokinetics and metabolism of CM1. CM1 is an excellent candidate for phase 1
clinical trials.

© 2015 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

PMID: 25627251  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


462. JIMD Rep. 2015 Jan 28. [Epub ahead of print]

Outcome of Patients with Classical Infantile Pompe Disease Receiving Enzyme
Replacement Therapy in Germany.

Hahn A(1), Praetorius S, Karabul N, Dießel J, Schmidt D, Motz R, Haase C,
Baethmann M, Hennermann JB, Smitka M, Santer R, Muschol N, Meyer A, Marquardt T, 
Huemer M, Thiels C, Rohrbach M, Seyfullah G, Mengel E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Child Neurology, University of Giessen, Feulgenstr.12, 35385,
Giessen, Germany, Andreas.Hahn@paediat.med.uni-giessen.de.

Purpose: Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) has been shown to improve outcome in
classical infantile Pompe disease. The purpose of this study was to assess
mortality, morbidity, and shortcomings of ERT in a larger cohort of patients
treated outside clinical trials. To accomplish this, we retrospectively analyzed 
the data of all 23 subjects with classical infantile Pompe disease having started
ERT in Germany between January 2003 and December 2010. Results: Ten patients
(43%) deceased and four others (17%) became ventilator dependent. Seven infants
(30.5%) made no motor progress at all, while seven (30.5%) achieved free sitting,
and nine (39%) gained free walking. Besides all the seven patients (100%)
attaining no improvement of motor functions, four out of the seven (57%)
achieving to sit without support, and three out of the nine (33%) being able to
walk independently, secondarily deteriorated, and died or became ventilator
dependent. Sustained reduction of systolic function despite reversal of cardiac
hypertrophy (n = 3), gastroesophageal reflux (n = 5), swallowing difficulties or 
failure to thrive (n = 11), recurrent pneumonias (n = 14), port system
complications (n = 4), anesthesia-related incidents (n = 2), severe allergic
reactions (n = 6), hearing loss (n = 3), and orthopedic deformities (n = 4) were 
problems frequently encountered. Conclusion: Although this study has important
shortcomings due to its retrospective nature and because important variables
potentially influencing outcome were not available for a substantial amount of
patients, these data suggest that classical infantile Pompe disease still remains
a life-threatening condition associated with high morbidity and often dismal
prognosis. Currently, a relevant number of patients do not benefit definitely
from ERT.

PMID: 25626711  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


463. Leuk Lymphoma. 2015 Jan 28:1-28. [Epub ahead of print]

A clinically based prognostic index for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL-PI) 
with a cut-off at 70 years of age significantly improves prognostic
stratification. Population-based analysis from the Danish Lymphoma Registry.

Gang AO, Pedersen M, d'Amore F, Pedersen LM, Jensen BA, Jensen P, Møller MB,
Mourits-Andersen T, Pedersen RS, Klausen TW, Brown PD.

Abstract Introduction of rituximab and generally improved health among elderly
patients have increased the survival of patients with diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma (DLBCL). The International Prognostic Index (IPI) from 1992 is based on 
pre-rituximab data from clinical trials including several lymphoma subtypes. We
applied IPI factors to a population-based rituximab-treated cohort of 1990
patients diagnosed 2000-2010 and explored new factors and optimal prognostic age 
cut-off for DLBCL. Multivariate-analyses (MVA) confirmed the prognostic value of 
all IPI factors except the presence of >1 extra-nodal lesion. The optimal age
cut-off was 70 years. In a MVA of albumin, lymphocyte-count, sex, IgG, bulky
disease, hemoglobin and B-symptoms, only albumin was prognostic. We propose 1) a 
modified DLBCL prognostic index (DLBCL-PI) including: age(70 years), performance 
status(PS), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), stage and albumin level, and 2) a
separate age-adjusted DLBCL-PI for patients ≤70 years including PS, LDH, albumin 
level and >1 extra-nodal lesion, however excluding stage.

PMID: 25629994  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


464. Malar J. 2015 Jan 28;14(1):33. [Epub ahead of print]

Increased sample volume and use of quantitative reverse-transcription PCR can
improve prediction of liver-to-blood inoculum size in controlled human malaria
infection studies.

Hodgson SH, Douglas AD, Edwards NJ, Kimani D, Elias SC, Chang M, Daza G, Seilie
AM, Magiri C, Muia A, Juma EA, Cole AO, Rampling TW, Anagnostou NA, Gilbert SC,
Hoffman SL, Draper SJ, Bejon P, Ogutu B, Marsh K, Hill AV, Murphy SC.

BackgroundControlled human malaria infection (CHMI) studies increasingly rely on 
nucleic acid test (NAT) methods to detect and quantify parasites in the blood of 
infected participants. The lower limits of detection and quantification vary
amongst the assays used throughout the world, which may affect the ability of
mathematical models to accurately estimate the liver-to-blood inoculum (LBI)
values that are used to judge the efficacy of pre-erythrocytic vaccine and drug
candidates.MethodsSamples were collected around the time of onset of pre-patent
parasitaemia from subjects who enrolled in two different CHMI clinical trials.
Blood samples were tested for Plasmodium falciparum 18S rRNA and/or rDNA targets 
by different NAT methods and results were compared. Methods included an
ultrasensitive, large volume modification of an established quantitative reverse 
transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) assay that achieves detection of as little as one
parasite/mL of whole blood.ResultsLarge volume qRT-PCR at the University of
Washington was the most sensitive test and generated quantifiable data more often
than any other NAT methodology. Standard quantitative PCR (qPCR) performed at the
University of Oxford and standard volume qRT-PCR performed at the University of
Washington were less sensitive than the large volume qRT-PCR, especially at
6.5 days after CHMI. In these trials, the proportion of participants for whom LBI
could be accurately quantified using parasite density value greater than or equal
to the lower limit of quantification was increased. A greater improvement would
be expected in trials in which numerous subjects receive a lower LBI or low dose 
challenge.ConclusionsStandard qPCR and qRT-PCR methods with analytical
sensitivities of ~20 parasites/mL probably suffice for most CHMI purposes, but
the newly developed large volume qRT-PCR may be able to answer specific questions
when more analytical sensitivity is required.

PMCID: PMC4318195
PMID: 25627033  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


465. Malar J. 2015 Jan 28;14(1):37. [Epub ahead of print]

Temporal changes in Plasmodium falciparum anti-malarial drug sensitivity in vitro
and resistance-associated genetic mutations in isolates from Papua New Guinea.

Koleala T, Karl S, Laman M, Moore BR, Benjamin J, Barnadas C, Robinson LJ,
Kattenberg JH, Javati S, Wong R, Rosanas-Urgell A, Betuela I, Siba PM, Mueller I,
Davis T.

BackgroundIn northern Papua New Guinea (PNG), most Plasmodium falciparum isolates
proved resistant to chloroquine (CQ) in vitro between 2005 and 2007, and there
was near-fixation of pfcrt K76T, pfdhfr C59R/S108N and pfmdr1 N86Y. To determine 
whether the subsequent introduction of artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) and 
reduced CQ-sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine pressure had attenuated parasite drug
susceptibility and resistance-associated mutations, these parameters were
re-assessed between 2011 and 2013.MethodsA validated fluorescence-based assay was
used to assess growth inhibition of 52 P. falciparum isolates from children in a 
clinical trial in Madang Province. Responses to CQ, lumefantrine, piperaquine,
naphthoquine, pyronaridine, artesunate, dihydroartemisinin, artemether were
assessed. Molecular resistance markers were detected using a multiplex PCR ligase
detection reaction fluorescent microsphere assay.ResultsCQ resistance (in vitro
concentration required for 50% parasite growth inhibition (IC50) >100 nM) was
present in 19% of isolates. All piperaquine and naphthoquine IC50s were <100 nM
and those for lumefantrine, pyronaridine and the artemisinin derivatives were in 
low nM ranges. Factor analysis of IC50s showed three groupings (lumefantrine; CQ,
piperaquine, naphthoquine; pyronaridine, dihydroartemisinin, artemether,
artesunate). Most isolates (96%) were monoclonal pfcrt K76T (SVMNT) mutants and
most (86%) contained pfmdr1 N86Y (YYSND). No wild-type pfdhfr was found but most 
isolates contained wild-type (SAKAA) pfdhps. Compared with 2005¿2007, the
geometric mean (95% CI) CQ IC50 was lower (87 (71¿107) vs 167 (141¿197) nM) and
there had been no change in the prevalence of pfcrt K76T or pfmdr1 mutations.
There were fewer isolates of the pfdhps (SAKAA) wild-type (60 vs 100%) and pfdhfr
mutations persisted.ConclusionsReflecting less drug pressure, in vitro CQ
sensitivity appears to be improving in Madang Province despite continued
near-fixation of pfcrt K76T and pfmdr1 mutations. Temporal changes in IC50s for
other anti-malarial drugs were inconsistent but susceptibility was preserved.
Retention or increases in pfdhfr and pfdhps mutations reflect continued use of
sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine in the study area including through paediatric
intermittent preventive treatment. The susceptibility of local isolates to
lumefantrine may be unrelated to those of other ACT partner drugs.Trial
registrationAustralian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12610000913077.

PMID: 25626445  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


466. Med Clin (Barc). 2015 Jan 28. pii: S0025-7753(14)00869-0. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2014.11.014. [Epub ahead of print]

[Oral precancer and cancer.]

[Article in Spanish]

López-López J(1), Omaña-Cepeda C(2), Jané-Salas E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Odontoestomatología, Facultad de Odontología, Universidad de
Barcelona, l'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, España. (2)Máster de Odontología
en Pacientes Oncológicos e Inmunocomprometidos, Facultad de Odontología,
Universidad de Barcelona, l'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, España.
(3)Departamento de Odontoestomatología, Facultad de Odontología, Universidad de
Barcelona, l'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, España. Electronic address:
enjasa19734@gmail.com.

We reviewed the concept of oral precancerous lesions, oral cancer, and the
possibility of early diagnosis. With the keywords: premalignant oral lesions
prevention, a search was performed over the past 10 years. Also clinical trials
are searched from January 2011 until today with the keywords: oral cancer
prevention AND dentistry. It is emphasized that there can be no significant
changes related to the concept of precancerous lesions and cancer, and those
relating to the early diagnosis. Despite the numerous described methods of
screening, biopsy remains the most useful test, and therefore it is essential,
mainly if we consider the new possibilities of molecular studies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25638423  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


467. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1111/pace.12574. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Electrocardiographic Comparison of Ventricular Premature Complexes during
Exercise Test in Patients with CPVT and Healthy Subjects.

Blich M(1), Marai I, Suleiman M, Lorber A, Gepstein L, Boulous M, Khoury A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pacing and Electrophysiology, Rambam Health Care Campus and Bruce 
Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Haifa, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is a
rare but highly malignant inherited arrhythmic disorder. Although a standardized 
exercise stress test (ST) is the most reliable way to diagnose CPVT, in 30% only 
single ventricular premature beats (VPCs) were recorded.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether electrocardiographic characteristics of VPCs
during ST distinguish patients with CPVT from healthy subjects.
METHODS: Electrocardiographic characteristics of VPCs during ST in 16
calsequestrin-2 (CASQ2) mutation carriers CPVT patients were compared with that
in 36 healthy subjects.
RESULTS: CPVT patients had more VPCs (31 ± 14 vs 3 ± 4, P < 0.0001), longer QRS
duration (139 ± 18 ms vs 121 ± 21, P = 0.004), and coupling interval (CI;
476 ± 58 ms vs 355 ± 61 ms, P < 0.0001). The most sensitive characteristics for
CPVT were >10 VPCs/test (100% sensitivity, 100% negative predictive value [NPV]),
left bundle branch block (LBBB) pattern with inferior axis (88% sensitivity, 94% 
NPV), and CI longer than 400 ms (88% sensitivity, 94% NPV). Bigeminy or trigeminy
or LBBB pattern with inferior axis was most specific for CPVT at 100% (100%
positive predictive value PPV, 92% NPV). First VPC during the recovery period and
VPC recording more than 1 minute during the recovery period were most specific
for healthy subjects (100% specificity, 100% PPV). In multivariate analysis, QRS 
duration >120 ms (odds ratio 4.2, 95% confidence interval 1-17.6, P = 0.04) and
first VPC at ≥10 mets (odds ratio 9.1, 95% confidence interval 2.01-41.1, P =
0.004) each predicted the presence of CPVT.
CONCLUSIONS: Several electrocardiographic criteria can help distinguish VPCs
originating from CPVT compared with healthy subjects.

©2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25627675  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


468. Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2015 Jan 28. [Epub ahead of print]

Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Pilot Randomized Trial of Methylprednisolone
Infusion in Pediatric Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome.

Drago BB(1), Kimura D, Rovnaghi CR, Schwingshackl A, Rayburn M, Meduri GU, Anand 
KJ.

Author information: 
(1)1Prohealth Pediatrics, New York, NY. 2Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN. 3Pain Neurobiology Laboratory,
University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN. 4Department of
Clinical Pharmacy, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital & College of Pharmacy,
University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN. 5Department of
Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, Memphis
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Memphis, TN.

OBJECTIVE:: Low-dose methylprednisolone therapy in adults with early acute
respiratory distress syndrome reduces systemic inflammation, duration of
mechanical ventilation, and ICU length of stay. We report a pilot randomized
trial of glucocorticoid treatment in early pediatric acute respiratory distress
syndrome.
DESIGN:: Double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial.
SETTING:: Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, Memphis, TN.
PATIENTS:: Children (0-18 yr) with acute respiratory distress syndrome undergoing
mechanical ventilation.
INTERVENTIONS:: Patients were randomly assigned to steroid or placebo groups
within 72 hours of intubation. IV methylprednisolone administered as loading dose
(2 mg/kg) and continuous infusions (1 mg/kg/d) on days 1-7 and then tapered over 
days 8-14. Both groups were ventilated according to the Acute Respiratory
Distress Syndrome Network protocol modified for children. Daily surveillance was 
performed for adverse effects.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS:: Thirty-five patients were randomized to the
steroid (n = 17, no death) and placebo groups (n = 18, two deaths). No
differences occurred in length of mechanical ventilation, ICU stay, hospital
stay, or mortality between the two groups. At baseline, higher plateau pressures 
(p = 0.006) and lower Pediatric Logistic Organ Dysfunction scores (p = 0.04)
occurred in the steroid group; other characteristics were similar. Despite higher
plateau pressures on days 1 (p = 0.006) and 2 (p = 0.025) due to poorer lung
compliance in the steroid group, they had lower PaCO2 values on days 2 (p =
0.009) and 3 (p = 0.014), higher pH values on day 2 (p = 0.018), and higher
PaO2/FIO2 ratios on days 8 (p = 0.047) and 9 (p = 0.002) compared with the
placebo group. Fewer patients in the steroid group required treatment for
postextubation stridor (p = 0.04) or supplemental oxygen at ICU transfer (p =
0.012). Steroid therapy was not associated with detectable adverse effects.
CONCLUSION:: This study demonstrates the feasibility of administering low-dose
glucocorticoid therapy and measuring clinically relevant outcomes in pediatric
acute respiratory distress syndrome. Changes in oxygenation and/or ventilation
are consistent with early acute respiratory distress syndrome pathophysiology and
results of similar clinical trials in adults. We propose and design a larger
randomized trial to define the role of glucocorticoid therapy in pediatric acute 
respiratory distress syndrome.

PMID: 25634565  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


469. Rofo. 2015 Jan 28. [Epub ahead of print]

Renal Denervation: Unde Venis et Quo Vadis?

Nähle CP(1), Düsing R(2), Schild H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Bonn. (2)Hypertoniezentrum Bonn,
Schwerpunktpraxis Kardiologie-Angiologie-Rehabilitation, Bonn.

Objective and Methods: Renal denervation is a minimally invasive, catheter-based 
option for the treatment of refractory hypertension. Indications and
contraindications for renal denervation have been defined in an interdisciplinary
manner. The efficacy and safety of the procedure were evaluated. Results:
Currently, indication for renal denervation is limited to patients with primary
hypertension and a systolic blood pressure of ≥ 160 mm Hg (or ≥ 150 mm Hg in
diabetes type 2) despite optimal medical therapy with ≥ 3 different
antihypertensive drugs. In this specific patient population, an average blood
pressure reduction of 32/14 mmHg was observed in non-randomized/-controlled
trials after renal denervation. These results were not confirmed in the first
randomized controlled trial with a non-significantly superior blood pressure
reduction of 14.1 ± 23.9 mm Hg compared to controls (-11.74 ± 25.94 mm Hg,
difference -2.39 mm Hg p = 0.26 for superiority with a margin of 5 mm Hg) who
underwent a sham procedure. Conclusion: The efficacy and long-term effects of
renal denervation need to be re-evaluated in light of the HTN3 study results. To 
date, renal denervation should not be performed outside of clinical trials.
Future trials should also assess if renal denervation can be performed with
sufficient safety and efficacy in patients with hypertension-associated diseases.
The use of renal denervation as an alternative therapy (e. g. in patients with
drug intolerance) can currently not be advocated. Key points: • The indication
for renal denervation should be assessed in an interdisciplinary fashion and
according to current guidelines with a special focus on ruling out secondary
causes for arterial hypertension.• 5 - 10 % of patients with hypertension suffer 
from refractory hypertension, but only about 1 % of patients meet the criteria
for a renal denervation.• Renal denervation leads to a significant decrease in
office blood pressure; however, the impact on 24-hour blood pressure measurements
remains unclear.• In the first randomized controlled trial on renal denervation
with a control group undergoing a sham procedure, blood pressure reduction failed
to reach the anticipated level of superiority over best medical
treatment.• Periprocedural complications are rare, but long-term safety can
currently not be appraised due to the limited data available. Citation Format:
• Naehle CP, Düsing R, Schild H. Renale Denervation: Unde venis et quo vadis?.
Fortschr Röntgenstr 2015; DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1385526.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

PMID: 25629384  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


470. Semin Dial. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1111/sdi.12342. [Epub ahead of print]

A Meta-analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials Assessing Hemodialysis Access
Thrombosis Based on Access Flow Monitoring: Where Do We Stand?

Muchayi T(1), Salman L, Tamariz LJ, Asif A, Rizvi A, Lenz O, Vazquez-Padron RI,
Tabbara M, Contreras G.

Author information: 
(1)Medicine/Nephrology, University of Miami, Miami, Florida.

The National Kidney Foundation Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative
recommends the routine use of hemodialysis arteriovenous (AV) access surveillance
to detect hemodynamically significant stenoses and appropriately correct them to 
reduce the incidence of thrombosis and to improve accesses patency rates. Access 
blood flow monitoring is considered as one of the preferred surveillance method
for both AV fistulas (AVF) and AV grafts (AVG); however, published studies have
reported conflicting results of its utility that led healthcare professionals to 
doubt the benefits of this surveillance method. We performed a meta-analysis of
the published randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of AV access surveillance using
access blood flow monitoring. Our hypothesis was that access blood flow
monitoring lowers the risk of AV access thrombosis and that the outcome differs
between AVF and AVG. The estimated overall pooled risk ratio (RR) of thrombosis
was 0.87 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.67-1.13) favoring access blood flow
monitoring. The pooled RR of thrombosis were 0.64 (95% CI, 0.41-1.01) and 1.06
(95% CI, 0.77-1.46) in the subgroups of only AVF and only AVG, respectively. Our 
results added to the uncertainty of access blood flow monitoring as a
surveillance method of hemodialysis accesses.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25644548  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


471. Stat Med. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1002/sim.6443. [Epub ahead of print]

A Bayesian dose-finding design for phase I/II clinical trials with nonignorable
dropouts.

Guo B(1), Yuan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Statistics, Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, LA, U.S.A.

Phase I/II trials utilize both toxicity and efficacy data to achieve efficient
dose finding. However, due to the requirement of assessing efficacy outcome,
which often takes a long period of time to be evaluated, the duration of phase
I/II trials is often longer than that of the conventional dose-finding trials. As
a result, phase I/II trials are susceptible to the missing data problem caused by
patient dropout, and the missing efficacy outcomes are often nonignorable in the 
sense that patients who do not experience treatment efficacy are more likely to
drop out of the trial. We propose a Bayesian phase I/II trial design to
accommodate nonignorable dropouts. We treat toxicity as a binary outcome and
efficacy as a time-to-event outcome. We model the marginal distribution of
toxicity using a logistic regression and jointly model the times to efficacy and 
dropout using proportional hazard models to adjust for nonignorable dropouts. The
correlation between times to efficacy and dropout is modeled using a shared
frailty. We propose a two-stage dose-finding algorithm to adaptively assign
patients to desirable doses. Simulation studies show that the proposed design has
desirable operating characteristics. Our design selects the target dose with a
high probability and assigns most patients to the target dose. Copyright © 2015
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25626676  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


472. Stat Med. 2015 Jan 28. doi: 10.1002/sim.6442. [Epub ahead of print]

Bridging continual reassessment method for phase I clinical trials in different
ethnic populations.

Liu S(1), Pan H, Xia J, Huang Q, Yuan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, 77030, U.S.A.

Accumulating evidence shows that the conventional one-size-fits-all dose-finding 
paradigm is problematic when applied to different ethnic populations. Because of 
inter-ethnic heterogeneity, the dosage established in a landmark trial for a
certain population may not be generalizable to a different ethnic population, and
a follow-up bridge trial is often needed to find the maximum tolerated dose for
the new population. We propose the bridging continual reassessment method (B-CRM)
to facilitate dose finding for such follow-up bridge trials. The B-CRM borrows
information from the landmark trial through a novel estimate of the dose-toxicity
curve and accommodates the inter-ethnic heterogeneity using the Bayesian model
averaging approach. Extensive simulation studies show that the B-CRM has
desirable operating characteristics with a high probability to select the target 
dose. This article focuses on ethnic heterogeneity, but the proposed method can
be directly used to handle other types of patient heterogeneity, for example,
patient subgroups defined by prognostic factors or biomarkers. The software to
implement the B-CRM design is available for free download at
http://odin.mdacc.tmc.edu/~yyuan/. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25626429  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


473. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan 28;21(4):1049-52. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i4.1049.

Does endoscopic ultrasound-guided biliary drainage really have clinical impact?

Ogura T(1), Higuchi K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Takeshi Ogura, Kazuhide Higuchi, Second Department of Internal Medicine, Osaka
Medical College, Osaka 569-8686, Japan.

The well established, gold standard method for treatment of obstructive jaundice 
involves biliary drainage under endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography
(ERCP) performed by pancreatobiliary endoscopists. Recently, interventions using 
endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) have been developed not only for obtaining
cytological and histological diagnosis, but also for biliary drainage as
alternative method. EUS-guided biliary drainage (EUS-BD) was first reported by
Giovannini et al. EUS-BD broadly includes EUS-guided rendezvous technique,
EUS-guided choledochoduodenostomy, and EUS-guided hepaticogastrostomy. More
recently, EUS-guided antegrade stenting and EUS-guided gallbladder drainage have 
also been reported. many case reports, series, and retrospective studies on
EUS-BD have been reported. However, because prospective studies and comparisons
between the different biliary drainage methods have not been reported, the
technical success, functional success, adverse events, and stent patency with
long-term follow up of EUS-BD are still unclear. Therefore, prospective,
randomized controlled studies addressing these issues are needed. Despite this,
EUS-BD undoubtedly is clinically useful as an alternative biliary drainage
method. EUS-BD has the potential to be a first-line biliary drainage method
instead of ERCP if results of clinical trials are favorable and the technique is 
simplified.

PMCID: PMC4306147
PMID: 25632176  [PubMed - in process]


474. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S0002-9394(15)00055-0. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2015.01.026. [Epub ahead of print]

Ocular Hypotensive Safety and Systemic Absorption of AR-13324 Ophthalmic Solution
in Normal Volunteers.

Levy B(1), Ramirez N(1), Novack GD(2), Kopczynski C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Aerie Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bridgewater, NJ and Research Triangle Park, NC.
(2)PharmaLogic Development, Inc., San Rafael, CA. Electronic address:
gary_novack@pharmalogic.com.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the ocular and systemic safety, and systemic absorption of
AR-13324 in normotensive, healthy volunteers.
DESIGN: This was an open-label, non-comparative, single-arm Phase 1 clinical
trial.
METHODS: SETTING: Phase 1 clinical trials unit. Patient or Study Population: 18
normal adult volunteers. Intervention or Observation Procedures: Subjects
received AR-13324 Ophthalmic Solution 0.02% once-daily (QD) in the morning (AM)
in each eye for 8 days. Main Outcome Measures: Plasma concentrations of AR-13324 
and its presumed human metabolite, AR-13503, and ocular safety measures RESULTS: 
There were no observed plasma AR-13324 concentrations above the lower limit of
quantitation at any time point in any subject. Only 1 plasma sample from 1
subject (Day 8 at 8 hours post-dose) had an AR-13503 concentration above the
lower limit of quantitation (0.11 ng/mL). AR-13324 dosed once-daily in the
morning produced substantial reductions from baseline IOP of up to 6 mm Hg that
were statistically significant (p ˂0.001) at all post-dose time points. All but 1
subject exhibited post-dose, transient conjunctival hyperemia to some degree in
the 8 hour period following morning dosing.
CONCLUSIONS: 0.2% AR-13324 Ophthalmic Solution, dosed QD AM for 8 days produced
little or no quantifiable systemic exposure to the parent compound or a presumed 
metabolite. Clinically and statistically significant reductions in IOP were
observed in these normotensive subjects that were more pronounced compared to
what has been commonly observed with other ocular hypotensive therapies in this
population.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637177  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


475. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S1083-8791(15)00086-5. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2015.01.020. [Epub ahead of print]

Single Agent High Dose Cyclophosphamide for Graft-Versus Host Disease Prophylaxis
in Hla-Matched Reduced Intensity Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation
Results in an Unacceptably High Rate of Severe Acute Gvhd.

Bradstock KF(1), Bilmon I(2), Kwan J(2), Micklethwaite K(2), Blyth E(2), Deren
S(2), Bayley A(2), Gebski V(3), Gottlieb D(2).

Author information: 
(1)BMT Service, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Electronic
address: ken.bradstock@sydney.edu.au. (2)BMT Service, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Australia. (3)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of
Sydney.

High dose cyclophosphamide given early after allogeneic hemopoietic cell
transplantation has been shown to be effective prophylaxis against
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in the setting of HLA-matched myeloablative bone
marrow grafts, allowing avoidance of long-term immunosuppression with calcineurin
inhibitors in some patients. Whether this approach is feasible using
G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood stem cell grafts is unknown. We conducted an
exploratory Phase 2 trial of cyclophosphamide given at 50 mg/kg IV on days 3 and 
4 post-transplant as sole GVHD prophylaxis in recipients of G-CSF-mobilized
peripheral blood stem cell grafts from HLA-matched related or unrelated donors
after reduced intensity conditioning therapy with fludarabine, carmustine and
melphalan. Five patients aged 52 to 67 years with high risk hematologic
malignancies were enrolled. Four of the 5 developed severe acute GVHD of grades 3
to 4, requiring treatment with methylprednisolone and cyclosporine; 3 were
steroid refractory and were given salvage therapy. One of these 4 patients died
of hepatic GVHD, one died of sepsis, and 2 survive. We conclude that
post-transplant cyclophosphamide is inadequate as sole GVHD prophylaxis in the
context of peripheral blood reduced intensity conditioning transplants from
HLA-matched donors. This trial is registered at ACTRN12613001154796.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25636379  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


476. Blood. 2015 Jan 27. pii: blood-2014-12-615187. [Epub ahead of print]

Geriatric assessment predicts survival and toxicities in elderly myeloma: an
International Myeloma Working Group report.

Palumbo A(1), Bringhen S(2), Mateos MV(3), Larocca A(2), Facon T(4), Kumar SK(5),
Offidani M(6), McCarthy P(7), Evangelista A(8), Lonial S(9), Zweegman S(10),
Musto P(11), Terpos E(12), Belch A(13), Hajek R(14), Ludwig H(15), Stewart
AK(16), Moreau P(17), Anderson K(18), Einsele H(19), Durie BG(20), Dimopoulos
MA(12), Landgren O(21), San Miguel JF(22), Richardson P(18), Sonneveld P(23),
Rajkumar SV(5).

Author information: 
(1)Myeloma Unit, Division of Hematology, University of Torino, Azienda
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Citta della Salute e della Scienza di Torino, Italy;
appalumbo@yahoo.com. (2)Myeloma Unit, Division of Hematology, University of
Torino, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Citta della Salute e della Scienza di
Torino, Italy; (3)Servicio de Hematologia, Hospital Universitario de Salamanca,
CIC, IBMCC (USAL-CSIC), Salamanca, Spain; (4)Department of Hematology, University
Hospital, Lille, France; (5)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic College of
Medicine, Rochester, MN, United States; (6)Clinica di Ematologia, AOU Ospedali
Riuniti di Ancona, Ancona, Italy; (7)Department of Medicine, Roswell Park Cancer 
Institute, Buffalo, NY, United States; (8)Unit of Clinical Epidemiology, Azienda 
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Citta della Salute e della Scienza di Torino, Italy;
(9)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, 
United States; (10)Department of Hematology, VU University Medical Center,
Amsterdam, Netherlands; (11)Scientific Direction, IRCCS, Referral Cancer Center
of Basilicata, Rionero in Vulture (Pz), Italy; (12)Department of Clinical
Therapeutics, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of Medicine,
Athens, Greece; (13)Department of Oncology, University of Alberta, Cross Cancer
Institute, Edmonton, AB, Canada; (14)Department of Haematooncology, University
Hospital Ostrava and Faculty of Medicine University of Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech
Republic; (15)14Department of Oncology, Hematology and Palliative Care,
Wilhelminenspital, Vienna, Austria; (16)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Mayo
Clinic in Arizona, Scottsdale, AZ, United States; (17)University Hospital
Hotel-Dieu, Nantes, France; (18)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, United 
States; (19)Universitaet Wuerzburg, Medizinische Klinik & Poliklinik II,
Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital, Wuerzburg, Germany;
(20)Cedars-Sinai Comprehensive Cancer Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States;
(21)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, United States; (22)Clinica
Universidad de Navarra, Centro de Investigaciones Medicas Aplicadas (CIMA),
Pamplona, United States; (23)Erasmus MC, Department of Hematology and HOVON Data 
Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands.

We conducted a pooled analysis of 869 individual newly diagnosed elderly patient 
data from 3 prospective international trials. At diagnosis, a geriatric
assessment had been performed to assess comorbidities, cognitive and physical
status. An additive scoring system (range 0-5), based on age, comorbidities,
cognitive and physical conditions, was developed to identify 3 groups: fit
(score=0, 39%); intermediate-fitness (score=1, 31%), and frail (score≥2, 30%).
The 3-year overall survival was 84% in fit patients, 76% in intermediate-fitness 
patients (HR 1.61, 95%CI 1.02-2.56, p=0.042) and 57% in frail patients (HR 3.57
CI 95% 2.37-5.39, p<0.001). The cumulative incidence of grade ≥3 non-hematologic 
adverse events at 12 months was 22.2% in fit, 26.4% in intermediate-fitness (HR
1.23, 95%CI 0.89-1.71; p 0.217) and 34.0% (HR 1.74, 95%CI 1.28-2.38; p<0.001) in 
frail patients. The cumulative incidence of treatment discontinuation at 12
months was 16.5% in fit, 20.8% in intermediate-fitness (HR 1.41, 95%CI 1.00-2.01,
p=0.052) and 31.2% (HR 2.21, 95%CI 1.57-3.09; p<0.001) in frail patients. Our
frailty score predicts mortality and the risk of toxicity in elderly myeloma
patients. The International Myeloma Working group proposes this score for the
measurement of frailty in designing future clinical trials. These trials are
registered to www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01093136 (EMN01), NCT01190787
(26866138MMY2069), and NCT01346787 (IST-CAR-506).

Copyright © 2015 American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 25628469  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


477. BMC Pulm Med. 2015 Jan 27;15(1):5. doi: 10.1186/1471-2466-15-5.

Randomized double blind placebo-controlled study to demonstrate that antibiotics 
are not needed in moderate acute exacerbations of COPD - The ABACOPD Study.

Rohde GG(1), Koch A, Welte T; ABACOPD study group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Centre,
Maastricht, the Netherlands. g.rohde@mumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotic-resistant strains of pathogenic bacteria are increasingly 
prevalent in hospitals and the community. Acute exacerbations of COPD (AE-COPD)
often result in administration of antibiotics although more than half of
exacerbations are associated with detection of respiratory viruses and
potentially pathogenic bacteria can only be detected in 20-30% of cases. There is
a paucity of placebo-controlled clinical trials and up to today no single study
has been powered sufficiently to prove the efficacy of antibiotic treatment in
AE-COPD. Most studies so far did not include current standards of care comprising
administration of systemic corticosteroids.
METHODS/DESIGN: A total of 980 patients with moderate acute exacerbations will be
included in 22 German centers (hospitals and private practices). Patients will
receive a standardized treatment for exacerbation including systemic
corticosteroids, inhaled bronchodilators and supplementary oxygen if needed and
will be randomized to additional treatment with placebo or antibiotic (oral
sultamicillin) for five days.The primary endpoint is clinical failure defined by 
need for additional antibiotic treatment until day 30. Secondary endpoints will
assure that management of AE-COPD without antibiotics does not result either in
increased occurrence of relapse, new exacerbations, prolonged recovery, or
unwanted long-term consequences.
DISCUSSION: ABACOPD will be the first sufficiently powered double-blind
placebo-controlled study in the field to systematically assess the question
whether antibiotics, known to increase antibiotic resistance, are really needed
in a well-defined patient cohort receiving state-of-the art treatment in all
other aspects.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01892488.

PMID: 25623589  [PubMed - in process]


478. BMJ. 2015 Jan 27;350:h25. doi: 10.1136/bmj.h25.

Postmenopausal weight change and incidence of fracture: post hoc findings from
Women's Health Initiative Observational Study and Clinical Trials.

Crandall CJ(1), Yildiz VO(2), Wactawski-Wende J(3), Johnson KC(4), Chen Z(5),
Going SB(6), Wright NC(7), Cauley JA(8).

Author information: 
(1)David Geffen School of Medicine at University of California, Los Angeles,
Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, UCLA
Medicine/GIM, 911 Broxton Avenue, 1st floor, Los Angeles, CA, 90024, USA
ccrandall@mednet.ucla.edu. (2)Center for Biostatistics, Ohio State University,
2012 Kenny Road, Columbus, Ohio, USA. (3)Department of Social and Preventive
Medicine, University at Buffalo, State University of New York, 65 Farber Hall,
3435 Main Street, Buffalo, NY 14214-3000 State University of NY at Buffalo,
Buffalo, NY, USA. (4)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Tennessee
Health Science Center, 66 N. Pauline, Suite 633, Memphis, TN 38163, USA.
(5)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Arizona, Tucson,
Arizona, USA. (6)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona, USA. (7)Department of Epidemiology, University of Alabama at
Birmingham, RPHB 523C, Birmingham, AL, 35294, USA. (8)Department of Epidemiology,
Graduate School of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine associations between postmenopausal change in body
weight and incidence of fracture and associations between voluntary and
involuntary weight loss and risk of fracture.
DESIGN: Post hoc analysis of data from the Women's Health Initiative
Observational Study and Clinical Trials.
SETTING: 40 clinical centers in the United States.
PARTICIPANTS: 120 566 postmenopausal women, aged 50-79 at baseline (1993-98),
followed through 2013 (mean fracture follow-up duration 11 years from baseline).
EXPOSURES: Annualized percentage change in measured body weight from baseline to 
year 3, classified as stable (<5% change), weight loss (≥5%), or weight gain
(≥5%). Self assessment of whether weight loss was intentional or unintentional.
Cox proportional hazards regression models were adjusted for age, race/ethnicity,
baseline body mass index (BMI), smoking, alcohol intake, level of physical
activity, energy expenditure, calcium and vitamin D intake, physical function
score, oophorectomy, hysterectomy, previous fracture, comorbidity score, and drug
use.
MAIN OUTCOMES: Incident self reported fractures of the upper limbs, lower limbs, 
and central body; hip fractures confirmed by medical records.
RESULTS: Mean participant age was 63.3. Mean annualized percent weight change was
0.30% (95% confidence interval 0.28 to 0.32). Overall, 79 279 (65.6%) had stable 
weight; 18 266 (15.2%) lost weight; and 23 021 (19.0%) gained weight. Compared
with stable weight, weight loss was associated with a 65% higher incidence rates 
of fracture in hip (adjusted hazard ratio 1.65, 95% confidence interval 1.49 to
1.82), upper limb (1.09, 1.03 to 1.16), and central body (1.30, 1.20 to 1.39);
weight gain was associated with higher incidence rates of fracture in upper limb 
(1.10, 1.05 to 1.18) and lower limb (1.18, 1.12 to 1.25). Compared with stable
weight, unintentional weight loss was associated with a 33% higher incidence
rates of hip fracture (1.33, 1.19 to 1.47) and increased incidence rates of
vertebral fracture (1.16, 1.06 to 1.26); intentional weight loss was associated
with increased incidence rates of lower limb fracture (1.11, 1.05 to 1.17) and
decreased incidence of hip fracture (0.85, 0.76 to 0.95).
CONCLUSIONS: Weight gain, weight loss, and intentional weight loss are associated
with increased incidence of fracture, but associations differ by fracture
location. Clinicians should be aware of fracture patterns after weight gain and
weight loss.

© Crandall et al 2015.

PMID: 25627698  [PubMed - in process]


479. BMJ. 2015 Jan 27;350:h134. doi: 10.1136/bmj.h134.

Financial incentives for smoking cessation in pregnancy: randomised controlled
trial.

Tappin D(1), Bauld L(2), Purves D(3), Boyd K(4), Sinclair L(2), MacAskill S(2),
McKell J(2), Friel B(5), McConnachie A(6), de Caestecker L(5), Tannahill C(7),
Radley A(8), Coleman T(9); Cessation in Pregnancy Incentives Trial (CPIT) Team.

Author information: 
(1)PEACH Unit, Child Health, Glasgow University, Yorkhill, Glasgow G3 8SJ, UK
david.tappin@glasgow.ac.uk. (2)Institute for Social Marketing and UK Centre for
Tobacco and Alcohol Studies, University of Stirling, Stirling, UK. (3)Strathclyde
University, Glasgow, UK. (4)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment
Unit, Institute of Health and Wellbeing, Glasgow University, Glasgow, UK.
(5)Public Health, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, Glasgow, UK. (6)Robertson Centre
for Biostatistics and Glasgow Clinical Trials Unit, Glasgow University, Glasgow, 
UK. (7)Glasgow Centre for Population Health, Glasgow, UK. (8)Directorate of
Public Health, NHS Tayside, Dundee, UK. (9)Division of Primary Care and, UK
Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of a financial incentive added to routine
specialist pregnancy stop smoking services versus routine care to help pregnant
smokers quit.
DESIGN: Phase II therapeutic exploratory single centre, individually randomised
controlled parallel group superiority trial.
SETTING: One large health board area with a materially deprived, inner city
population in the west of Scotland, United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 612 self reported pregnant smokers in NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde
who were English speaking, at least 16 years of age, less than 24 weeks pregnant,
and had an exhaled carbon monoxide breath test result of 7 ppm or more. 306 women
were randomised to incentives and 306 to control.
INTERVENTIONS: The control group received routine care, which was the offer of a 
face to face appointment to discuss smoking and cessation and, for those who
attended and set a quit date, the offer of free nicotine replacement therapy for 
10 weeks provided by pharmacy services, and four, weekly support phone calls. The
intervention group received routine care plus the offer of up to £400 of shopping
vouchers: £50 for attending a face to face appointment and setting a quit date;
then another £50 if at four weeks' post-quit date exhaled carbon monoxide
confirmed quitting; a further £100 was provided for continued validated
abstinence of exhaled carbon monoxide after 12 weeks; a final £200 voucher was
provided for validated abstinence of exhaled carbon monoxide at 34-38 weeks'
gestation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The primary outcome was cotinine verified cessation at
34-38 weeks' gestation through saliva (<14.2 ng/mL) or urine (<44.7 ng/mL).
Secondary outcomes included birth weight, engagement, and self reported quit at
four weeks.
RESULTS: Recruitment was extended from 12 to 15 months to achieve the target
sample size. Follow-up continued until September 2013. Of the 306 women
randomised, three controls opted out soon after enrolment; these women did not
want their data to be used, leaving 306 intervention and 303 control group
participants in the intention to treat analysis. No harms of financial incentives
were documented. Significantly more smokers in the incentives group than control 
group stopped smoking: 69 (22.5%) versus 26 (8.6%). The relative risk of not
smoking at the end of pregnancy was 2.63 (95% confidence interval 1.73 to 4.01)
P<0.001. The absolute risk difference was 14.0% (95% confidence interval 8.2% to 
19.7%). The number needed to treat (where financial incentives need to be offered
to achieve one extra quitter in late pregnancy) was 7.2 (95% confidence interval 
5.1 to 12.2). The mean birth weight was 3140 g (SD 600 g) in the incentives group
and 3120 (SD 590) g in the control group (P=0.67).
CONCLUSION: This phase II randomised controlled trial provides substantial
evidence for the efficacy of incentives for smoking cessation in pregnancy; as
this was only a single centre trial, incentives should now be tested in different
types of pregnancy cessation services and in different parts of the United
Kingdom.Trial registration Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN87508788.

© Tappin et al 2015.

PMID: 25627664  [PubMed - in process]


480. Braz J Infect Dis. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S1413-8670(15)00022-7. doi:
10.1016/j.bjid.2014.10.010. [Epub ahead of print]

A meta-analysis of efficacy and safety of doripenem for treating bacterial
infections.

Qu XY(1), Hu TT(2), Zhou W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun
130021, PR China. Electronic address: 350740439@qq.com. (2)Department of
Technical Center, Jilin Entry Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau, Changchun
130062, PR China. (3)Department of Pharmacy, The First Hospital of Jilin
University, Changchun 130021, PR China.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this article is to compare the efficacy and safety of
doripenem for bacterial infections.
METHODS: We included six randomized clinical trials identified from PubMed and
Embase up to July 31, 2014. The included trials compared efficacy and safety of
doripenem for complicated intra-abdominal infections, complicated urinary tract
infection, nosocomial pneumonia, and acute biliary tract infection. The
meta-analysis was carried on by the statistical software of Review Manager,
version 5.2.
RESULTS: Compared with empirical antimicrobial agents on overall treatment
efficacy, doripenem was associated with similar clinical and microbiological
treatment success rates (for the clinical evaluable population, odds ratio
[OR]=1.26, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.93-1.69, p=0.13; for clinical modified 
intent-to-treatment population, OR=0.88, 95% CI 0.55-1.41, p=0.60; for
microbiology evaluable population, OR=1.16, 95% CI 0.90-1.50, p=0.26; for
microbiological modified intent-to-treatment (m-mITT), OR=0.98, 95% CI 0.81-1.20,
p=0.87). We compared incidence of adverse events and all-cause mortality to
analyze treatment safety. The outcomes suggested that doripenem was similar to
comparators in terms of incidence of adverse events and all-cause mortality on
modified intent-to-treatment population (for incidence of AEs, OR=1.10, 95% CI
0.90-1.35, p=0.33; for all-cause mortality, OR=1.08, 95% CI 0.77-1.51, p=0.67).
In nosocomial pneumonia and ventilator-associated pneumonia treatment, doripenem 
was not inferior to other antibacterial agents in terms of efficacy and safety.
CONCLUSION: From this meta-analysis, we can conclude that doripenem is as
valuable and well-tolerated than empirical antimicrobial agents for complicated
intra-abdominal infections, complicated urinary tract infection, acute biliary
tract infection and nosocomial pneumonia treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25636188  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


481. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2015 Jan 27. doi: 10.1111/ced.12578. [Epub ahead of print]

What's new in atopic eczema? An analysis of systematic reviews published in 2012 
and 2013. Part 1. Epidemiology, mechanisms of disease and methodological issues.

Madhok V(1), Futamura M, Thomas KS, Barbarot S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Population Health Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.

This review provides a summary of key findings from nine systematic reviews on
atopic eczema (AE) published over the 2-year period from January 2012 to 31
December 2013, focusing on epidemiology, mechanisms of disease and methodological
issues. There is now reasonable evidence to suggest that antibiotic exposure in
early life is associated with increased incidence of AE, but delivery by
caesarean section is not. The prevalence of AE is increasing in Africa, eastern
Asia, western Europe and parts of northern Europe. Autoimmunity may play a part
in the development and subsequent severity of AE. For researchers conducting
clinical trials and other prospective studies involving patients with AE, the two
best-validated scales for capturing objective clinical signs of AE are the Eczema
Assessment Severity scale (EASI) and the objective SCORing Atopic Dermatitis
scale (objSCORAD). For the assessment of quality of life in children aged
0-3 years, the Infant Dermatitis Quality of Life scale (IDQoL) is reasonably well
validated. A standardized definition of an incident case of AE for use in
prevention studies is still required.

© 2015 British Association of Dermatologists.

PMID: 25622689  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


482. Clin Trials. 2015 Jan 27. pii: 1740774514566662. [Epub ahead of print]

Missing not at random models for masked clinical trials with dropouts.

Kang S(1), Little RJ(2), Kaciroti N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA
shankang@umich.edu. (2)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, MI, USA.

BACKGROUND: Missing data are an unavoidable problem in clinical trials. Most
existing missing data approaches assume the missing data are missing at random.
However, the missing at random assumption is often questionable when the real
causes of missing data are not well known and cannot be tested from observed
data.
METHODS: We propose a specific missing not at random assumption, which we call
masked missing not at random, which may be more plausible than missing at random 
for masked clinical trials. We formulate models for categorical and continuous
outcomes under this assumption. Simulations are conducted to examine the finite
sample performance of our methods and compare them with other methods. R code for
the proposed methods is provided in supplementary materials.
RESULTS: Simulation studies confirm that maximum likelihood methods assuming
masked missing not at random outperform complete case analysis and maximum
likelihood assuming missing at random when masked missing not at random is true. 
For the particular missing at random model where both of missing at random and
masked missing not at random are satisfied, theory suggests that maximum
likelihood assuming missing at random is at least as efficient as maximum
likelihood assuming masked missing not at random. However, maximum likelihood
assuming masked missing not at random is nearly as efficient as maximum
likelihood assuming missing at random in our simulated settings. We also applied 
our methods to the TRial Of Preventing HYpertension study. The missing at random 
estimated treatment effect and its 95% confidence interval are robust to
deviations from missing at random of the form implied by masked missing not at
random.
CONCLUSION: Methods based on the masked missing not at random assumption are
useful for masked clinical trials, either in their own right or to provide a form
of sensitivity analysis for deviations from missing at random. Missing at random 
analysis might be favored on grounds of efficiency if the estimates based on
masked missing not at random and missing at random are similar, but if the
estimates are substantially different, the masked missing not at random estimates
might be preferred because the mechanism is more plausible.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25627429  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


483. Endocrinology. 2015 Jan 27:en20141700. [Epub ahead of print]

Myocardial and cardiomyocyte stress resilience is enhanced in aromatase-deficient
female mouse hearts through CaMKIIδ activation.

Bell JR(1), Bernasochi GB, Wollermann AC, Raaijmakers AJ, Boon WC, Simpson ER,
Curl CL, Mellor KM, Delbridge LM.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiac Phenomics Laboratory, Department of Physiology, University of
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.;

The role of sex steroids in cardioprotection is contentious, with large clinical 
trials investigating hormone supplementation failing to deliver outcomes expected
from observational studies. Mechanistic understanding of androgen/estrogen
myocardial actions is lacking. Using a genetic model of aromatase tissue
deficiency (ArKO) in female mice, the goal of this investigation was to evaluate 
the capacity of a shift in cardiac endogenous steroid conversion to influence
ischemia-reperfusion resilience by optimizing cardiomyocyte Ca(2+) handling
responses. In isolated normoxic cardiomyocytes, basal Ca(2+) transient amplitude 
and extent of shortening were greater in ArKO myocytes, with preservation of
diastolic Ca(2+) levels. Isolated ArKO cardiomyocytes exposed to a high Ca(2+)
load exhibited greater Ca(2+) transient and contractile amplitudes, associated
with a greater post-rest spontaneous SR Ca(2+) load-release. Microarray
differential gene expression analysis of normoxic ventricular tissues from ArKO
vs. wildtype (ArWT) identified a significant influence of aromatase on genes
involved in cardiac Ca(2+) handling and signaling (including CaMKIIδ),
myofilament structure and function, glucose uptake and signaling and enzymes
controlling phosphorylation-specific post-translational modification status.
CaMKII expression was not changed in ventricular tissues, though CaMKIIδ
activation and phosphorylation of downstream targets was enhanced in ArKO hearts 
subjected to ischemia-reperfusion. Overall, this investigation shows that
relative withdrawal of estrogen in favour of testosterone through
genetically-induced tissue aromatase deficiency in females modifies the gene
expression profile to effect inotropic support via optimized Ca(2+)-handling in
response to stress, with modest impact on basal function. Consideration of
aromatase inhibition, acutely or chronically may have a role in cardioprotection,
of particular relevance to women.

PMID: 25625588  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


484. Eur J Clin Invest. 2015 Jan 27. doi: 10.1111/eci.12410. [Epub ahead of print]

Frequency, Risk Factors and Prophylaxis of Infection in ANCA-Associated
Vasculitis.

Kronbichler A(1), Jayne DR, Mayer G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine IV (Nephrology and Hypertension), Medical
University of Innsbruck, Anichstraße 35, 6020, Innsbruck, Austria; Vasculitis and
Lupus Clinic, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, CB2 0QQ, Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

Anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitides are potentially
life-threatening disorders. Even though immunosuppressive therapy improves the
prognosis, adverse events, either attributable to persistent disease activity or 
side effects of treatment remain a challenge. Infectious complications are the
leading cause of death in the first year after diagnosis and a major cause of
morbidity and mortality thereafter. Their incidence in clinical trials varies
considerably but opportunistic and life-threatening infections, such as
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia or systemic cytomegalovirus infections are
frequent and thus predisposing/risk factors need to be defined. Pneumocystis
jiirovecii pneumonia has been associated with a lymphocyte count below 300/mm(3) 
. Additionally, besides the aggressiveness of the immunosuppressive regimen
administered (especially the cumulative dose of steroids and cyclophosphamide),
an elevated serum creatinine or dialysis dependency, older age and pulmonary
involvement increase the rate of infectious complications. We suggest to
routinely prescribe trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or antimicrobial agents such as
pentamidine in case of intolerance or contraindication in the early phase of
induction therapy irrespective of the immunosuppressive strategy used and to
continue therapy, together with other targeted measures (antiviral, antimycotic
or antibiotic) in the presence of risk factors for a prolonged period of time.
Finally there is an urgent need to standardize the reporting of infectious
complications in clinical trials to enable comparing the adverse event spectrum
of distinct treatment approaches more appropriately. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25627555  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


485. Hastings Cent Rep. 2015 Jan 27. doi: 10.1002/hast.433. [Epub ahead of print]

The Structure of Clinical Translation: Efficiency, Information, and Ethics.

Kimmelman J, London AJ.

The last two decades have witnessed a crescendo of allegations that clinical
translation is rife with waste and inefficiency. Patient advocates argue that
excessively demanding regulations delay access to life-saving drugs, research
funders claim that too much basic science languishes in academic laboratories,
journal editors allege that biased reporting squanders public investment in
biomedical research, and drug companies (and their critics) argue that far too
much is expended in pharmaceutical development. But how should stakeholders
evaluate the efficiency of translation and proposed reforms to drug development? 
Effective reforms require an accurate model of the systems they aspire to
improve-their components, their proper functions, and their pathologies. However,
there is currently no explicit and well-developed model of translation for
evaluating such criticisms. In what follows, we offer an explicit model of
clinical translation. Many discussions of clinical translation and its
pathologies presume that its main output is tangible: new drugs, vaccines,
devices, and diagnostics. We disagree. We argue that the principal output of
clinical translation is information-in particular, information about the
coordinated set of materials, practices, and constraints needed to safely unlock 
the therapeutic or preventive activities of drugs, biologics, and diagnostics. To
develop this information calls for a process far different from a simple linear
progression of clinical trials; it requires exploratory sampling of many
different elements in this set. Our model points to some limitations and
liabilities of influential proposals for reforming research. It also reveals some
underrecognized opportunities for improving the efficiency of clinical
translation.

© 2015 The Hastings Center.

PMID: 25628068  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


486. Hepatology. 2015 Jan 27. doi: 10.1002/hep.27724. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatment with ledipasvir and sofosbuvir improves patient-reported outcomes:
Results from the Ion-1, 2 and 3 clinical trials.

Younossi ZM(1), Stepanova M, Marcellin P, Afdhal N, Kowdley KV, Zeuzem S, Hunt
SL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Liver Diseases, Department of Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital,
Falls Church, VA, United States; Betty and Guy Beatty Center for Integrated
Research, Inova Health System, Falls Church, VA, United States.

Treatment with interferon (IFN) and ribavirin (RBV) significantly impairs quality
of life and other patient-reported outcomes (PROs). Patient experience in IFN-
and RBV-free anti-HCV regimens has never been reported. We aimed to assess PROs
in patients treated with sofosbuvir and ledipasvir (LDV/SOF) with and without
RBV.METHODS: Four different PRO questionnaires were administered at baseline,
during, and post-treatment in HCV genotype 1 patients treated with LDV/SOF±RBV
(ION-1, 2 and 3).
RESULTS: A total of 1,952 patients were enrolled to be treated for 8 weeks
(N=431), 12 weeks (N=867), or 24 weeks (N=654) with LDV/SOF (N=1,080) or
LDV/SOF+RBV (N=872). Baseline demographics and psychiatric disorders were similar
between treatment groups (all p>0.05). Patients receiving LDV/SOF regimens showed
significant improvement of PRO scores during treatment (up to +7.4%, +7.0% and
+6.7% on a normalized 0-100% scale in the 8-, 12-, and 24-weeks-long treatment
groups, respectively; all p<0.0001). These PRO improvements coincided with early 
viral suppression after 2 weeks of treatment and maximized by the end of
treatment. On the other hand, during treatment with LDV/SOF+RBV, PRO scores
declined (up to -5.5% regardless of treatment duration, p<0.0001). Receiving RBV 
was an independent predictor of PRO impairment in multivariate analysis (beta up 
to -5.9%, p<0.0001). Patients who achieved SVR-12 showed significant improvement 
of their PROs post-treatment (up to +8.3%, p<0.0001).
CONCLUSION: IFN- and RBV-free regimens with LDV/SOF result in early HCV
suppression with simultaneous improvement in PROs that continued throughout the
duration of treatment and post-treatment. This article is protected by copyright.
All rights reserved.

© 2015 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

PMID: 25627448  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


487. Hepatology. 2015 Jan 27. doi: 10.1002/hep.27720. [Epub ahead of print]

Strategies and Endpoints of Antifibrotic Drug Trials.

Torok N(1), Dranoff JA, Schuppan D, Friedman SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, UC Davis Medical Center,
Sacramento, CA and VA Northern California Healthcare System, Mather, CA.

There is an urgent need to develop antifibrotic therapies for chronic liver
disease, and to clarify which endpoints in antifibrotic trials will be acceptable
to regulatory agencies. AASLD sponsored an endpoints conference to help
accelerate the efficient testing of antifibrotic agents and to develop
recommendations on clinical trial design for liver fibrosis. In this review we
summarize the salient and novel elements of this conference and provide
directions for future clinical trial design. The paper follows the structure of
the conference and is organized into five areas: I) Antifibrotic trial design;
II) Preclinical proof of concept studies; III) Pharmacologic targets: rationale
and lessons to learn; IV) Rational drug design and development; V) Consensus and 
recommendations on design of clinical trials in liver fibrosis. Expert overviews 
and collaborative discussions helped to summarize the key unmet needs and
directions for the future, including: 1) Greater clarification of at-risk
populations and study groups; 2) Standardization of all elements of drug
discovery and testing; 3) Standardization of clinical trial approaches; 4)
Accelerated development of improved non-invasive markers; 5) Need for exploration
of potential off-target toxicities of future antifibrotic drugs. This article is 
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Copyright © 2015 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

PMID: 25626988  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


488. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S0190-9622(14)02270-1. doi:
10.1016/j.jaad.2014.12.010. [Epub ahead of print]

Incidence and risk of xerosis with targeted anticancer therapies.

Valentine J(1), Belum VR(2), Duran J(3), Ciccolini K(2), Schindler K(4), Wu S(5),
Lacouture ME(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Naval Medical Center San Diego, San Diego,
California. (2)Dermatology Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York. (3)Department of Dermatology, Universidad del Rosario, Bogota,
Colombia. (4)Dermatology Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York; Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria. (5)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Stony Brook University Cancer
Center, Stony Brook, New York; Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of
Medicine, Northport Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Northport, New York.
(6)Dermatology Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York. Electronic address: lacoutum@mskcc.org.

BACKGROUND: Many targeted therapies used in the treatment of cancer can lead to
the development of xerosis, but the incidence and relative risk of xerosis have
not been ascertained.
OBJECTIVE: We conducted a systematic review and metaanalysis of clinical trials, 
to ascertain the incidence and risk of developing xerosis after taking anticancer
drugs.
METHODS: The PubMed (1966-October 2013), Web of Science (January 1998-October
2013), and American Society of Clinical Oncology abstracts (2004-2013) databases 
were searched for clinical trials of 58 targeted agents. Results were calculated 
using random or fixed effects models.
RESULTS: The incidences of all- and high-grade xerosis were 17.9% (95% confidence
interval [CI]: 15.6-20.4%) and 1.0% (95% CI: 0.9-1.5%), respectively. The risk of
developing all-grade xerosis was 2.99 (95% CI: 2.0-4.3), and it varied across
different drugs (P < .001).
LIMITATIONS: The reporting of xerosis may vary among clinicians and institutions,
and the incidence may be affected by age, concomitant medications, comorbidities,
and underlying malignancies or skin conditions.
CONCLUSION: Patients receiving targeted therapies have a significant risk of
developing xerosis. Patients should be counseled and treated early for this
symptom to prevent suboptimal dosing and quality of life impairment.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25637330  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


489. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2015 Jan 27. pii: dku566. [Epub ahead of print]

Emergence of azole-resistant invasive aspergillosis in HSCT recipients in
Germany.

Steinmann J(1), Hamprecht A(2), Vehreschild MJ(3), Cornely OA(4), Buchheidt D(5),
Spiess B(5), Koldehoff M(6), Buer J(7), Meis JF(8), Rath PM(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Essen, University of
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany joerg.steinmann@uk-essen.de. (2)Institute for
Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Hygiene, University Hospital of Cologne,
Cologne, Germany. (3)First Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Cologne, Cologne, Germany German Centre for Infection Research (DZIF), Partner
site Bonn-Cologne, Germany. (4)First Department of Internal Medicine, University 
of Cologne, Cologne, Germany German Centre for Infection Research (DZIF), Partner
site Bonn-Cologne, Germany Clinical Trials Centre Cologne, ZKS Köln, BMBF
01KN1106, Center for Integrated Oncology CIO Köln Bonn, Cologne Excellence
Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD),
University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. (5)3rd Department of Internal Medicine, 
Mannheim University Hospital, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.
(6)Department of Bone Marrow Transplantation (AHE), West German Cancer Center,
University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany. (7)Institute of Medical Microbiology, 
University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(8)Department of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Canisius
Wilhelmina Hospital, Nijmegen, The Netherlands Department of Medical
Microbiology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Aspergillus fumigatus is the most common agent of invasive
aspergillosis (IA). In recent years, resistance to triazoles, the mainstay of IA 
therapy, has emerged in different countries worldwide. IA caused by
azole-resistant A. fumigatus (ARAF) shows an exceedingly high mortality. In this 
study, IA due to ARAF isolates in HSCT recipients in Germany was investigated.
METHODS: The epidemiology of azole resistance in IA was analysed in two German
haematology departments. Between 2012 and 2013, 762 patients received HSCT in
Essen (n = 388) and Cologne (n = 374). Susceptibility testing of A. fumigatus
isolates was performed by Etest, followed by EUCAST broth microdilution testing
if elevated MICs were recorded. In all ARAF isolates the cyp51A gene was
sequenced and the genotype was determined by microsatellite typing using nine
short tandem repeats.
RESULTS: In total, A. fumigatus was recovered from 27 HSCT recipients. Eight
patients had azole-resistant IA after HSCT, and seven of the cases were fatal
(88%). All except one patient received antifungal prophylaxis (in five cases
triazoles). TR34/L98H was the most common mutation (n = 5), followed by
TR46/Y121F/T289A (n = 2). In one resistant isolate no cyp51A mutation was
detected. Genotyping revealed genetic diversity within the German ARAF isolates
and no clustering with resistant isolates from the Netherlands, India and France.
CONCLUSIONS: This report highlights the emergence of azole-resistant IA with
TR34/L98H and TR46/Y121F/T289A mutations in HSCT patients in Germany and
underscores the need for systematic antifungal susceptibility testing of A.
fumigatus.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25630644  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


490. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2015 Jan 27. doi: 10.1111/jcpt.12243. [Epub ahead of print]

On clinical thresholds, clinical equivalents and indirect comparisons of
biological treatments for moderate-to-severe psoriasis.

Puig L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona,
Spain; Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: To assess the equivalent efficacy of two or more
treatments, clinical relevance must be adequately established, but there appears 
to be some confusion between clinical relevance and differences in absolute risk 
reduction or effect size, which quantifies the size of the difference between two
groups. Delta values used for sample size calculation in clinical trials should
take account of clinical relevance. We aim to illustrate this confusion as
regards biologics for treatment of moderate-to-severe psoriasis.
COMMENT: In psoriasis, treatment success has been defined as achieving lesion
response to 'clear or almost clear', ≥ 90% improvement with respect to baseline
Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI), or achieving a PASI score lower than 3 
on treatment. A PASI 75 response (≥ 75% improvement with respect to baseline) is 
often taken as a meaningful cut-off for clinical relevance. A recently published 
meta-analysis using a random-effects model showed that ustekinumab use was
associated with statistically significantly higher odds for achieving PASI 75
response compared with adalimumab use (OR, 1·84; 95% credible interval,
1·01-3·54) and etanercept use (2·07; 1·42-3·06), but lower odds for achieving
PASI 75 compared with infliximab use (0·36; 0·14-0·82). The inference is that
this magnitude of response in PASI will translate into a perceptible clinical
improvement by patients. This need not be the case. In particular, this measure
does not take account of the adverse effect profiles of the different agents.
Only by taking account of these different and opposing effects, such as through
use of validated quality-of-life indices, can one make robust inferences on
clinical equivalence.
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: From a clinical perspective, biologics for the
treatment of plaque psoriasis should not be considered equivalents solely on the 
basis of PASI responses. Choice between these agents requires accounting for
their relative safety and efficacy profiles, as well as patient-reported outcome 
measures. At the individual patient level, other factors such as individual
contraindications must be taken into account.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25627250  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


491. J Neuroradiol. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S0150-9861(15)00004-8. doi:
10.1016/j.neurad.2014.11.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Perfusion CT and acute stroke imaging: Foundations, applications, and literature 
review.

Donahue J(1), Wintermark M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroradiology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA,
United States. (2)Division of Neuroradiology, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, VA, United States; Department of Radiology, Division of
Neuroradiology, Stanford University, 300, Pasteur Drive, Room S047, Stanford, CA 
94305-5105, United States. Electronic address: max.wintermark@gmail.com.

Multimodal CT features prominently in the rapidly evolving field of acute stroke 
triage, with perfusion CT applications at the forefront of many clinical research
efforts. Perfusion CT offers a time sensitive and widely practicable assessment
of cerebral hemodynamics and parenchymal viability that is key in acute stroke
management. The following article reviews perfusion CT foundations and technical 
considerations while highlighting recent modality advances and frontline clinical
applications. Ischemic penumbra and other prognostic imaging biomarkers are
discussed in the context of results of recent clinical trials (MR-RESCUE, IMS
III, Tenecteplase, etc.), with an emphasis on evidence based image guided stroke 
triage.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25636991  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


492. J Pain. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S1526-5900(15)00035-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jpain.2015.01.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Quality of pain intensity assessment reporting: ACTTION systematic review and
recommendations.

Smith SM(1), Hunsinger M(2), McKeown A(3), Parkhurst M(4), Allen R(5), Kopko
S(6), Lu Y(7), Wilson HD(8), Burke LB(9), Desjardins P(10), McDermott MP(11),
Rappaport BA(12), Turk DC(13), Dworkin RH(14).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address:
shannon1_smith@urmc.rochester.edu. (2)School of Professional Psychology, Pacific 
University, Hillsboro, OR, USA. Electronic address: matthewh@pacificu.edu.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address: amckeown12@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address:
Melissa_Parkhurst@URMC.Rochester.edu. (5)Centrexion Corporation, Baltimore, MD,
USA. Electronic address: rra.pain@gmail.com. (6)Clinical Data Interchange
Standards Consortium, Austin, TX, USA. Electronic address: skopko@cdisc.org.
(7)KAI Research, Inc., Rockville, MD, USA. Electronic address:
YLu@kai-research.com. (8)Evidera, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address:
labcoats@gmail.com. (9)LORA Group, LLC, Royal Oak, MD, USA. Electronic address:
lauriebethburke@gmail.com. (10)Desjardins Associates, Maplewood, NJ, USA.
Electronic address: paul.j.desjardins@gmail.com. (11)Departments of Biostatistics
and Computational Biology and Neurology, University of Rochester School of
Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address:
Michael_McDermott@URMC.Rochester.edu. (12)Arlington, VA, USA. Electronic address:
bobarappaport@gmail.com. (13)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address:
turkdc@u.washington.edu. (14)Departments of Anesthesiology and Neurology and
Center for Human Experimental Therapeutics, University of Rochester School of
Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address:
Robert_Dworkin@URMC.Rochester.edu.

Pain intensity assessments are used widely in human pain research and their
transparent reporting is crucial to interpreting study results. In this
systematic review, we examined reporting of human pain intensity assessments and 
related elements (e.g., administration frequency, time period assessed, type of
pain) in all empirical pain studies with adult participants reported in three
major pain journals (i.e., European Journal of Pain, Journal of Pain, and Pain)
between January, 2011 and July, 2012. Of the 262 articles identified, one-quarter
(24%) ambiguously reported the pain intensity assessment. Elements related to the
pain intensity assessment were frequently not reported: 31% did not identify the 
time period participants were asked to rate, 43% failed to report the type of
pain intensity rated, and 58% did not report the specific location or pain
condition rated. No differences were observed between randomized clinical trials 
and experimental (e.g., studies involving experimental manipulation without
random group assignment and blinding) and observational studies in reporting
quality. The ability to understand study results, as well as to compare results
between studies, is compromised when pain intensity assessments are not fully
reported. Recommendations are presented regarding key details for investigators
to consider when conducting and reporting pain intensity assessments in human
adults.

Copyright © 2015 American Pain Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25637296  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


493. JAMA. 2015 Jan 27;313(4):398-408. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.17103.

Diagnosis and treatment of Clostridium difficile in adults: a systematic review.

Bagdasarian N(1), Rao K(2), Malani PN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Infection Control, St John
Hospital and Medical Center, Detroit, Michigan2Department of Internal Medicine,
Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan. (2)Division of Infectious Diseases,
Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School,
University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor4Veterans Affairs Ann Arbor
Healthcare System, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

IMPORTANCE: Since 2000, the incidence and severity of Clostridium difficile
infection (CDI) have increased.
OBJECTIVE: To review current evidence regarding best practices for the diagnosis 
and treatment of CDI in adults (age ≥ 18 years).
EVIDENCE REVIEW: Ovid MEDLINE and Cochrane databases were searched using keywords
relevant to the diagnosis and treatment of CDI in adults. Articles published
between January 1978 and October 31, 2014, were selected for inclusion based on
targeted keyword searches, manual review of bibliographies, and whether the
article was a guideline, systematic review, or meta-analysis published within the
past 10 years. Of 4682 articles initially identified, 196 were selected for full 
review. Of these, the most pertinent 116 articles were included. Clinical trials,
large observational studies, and more recently published articles were
prioritized in the selection process.
FINDINGS: Laboratory testing cannot distinguish between asymptomatic colonization
and symptomatic infection with C difficile. Diagnostic approaches are complex due
to the availability of multiple testing strategies. Multistep algorithms using
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the toxin gene(s) or single-step PCR on
liquid stool samples have the best test performance characteristics (for
multistep: sensitivity was 0.68-1.00 and specificity was 0.92-1.00; and for
single step: sensitivity was 0.86-0.92 and specificity was 0.94-0.97). Vancomycin
and metronidazole are first-line therapies for most patients, although treatment 
failures have been associated with metronidazole in severe or complicated cases
of CDI. Recent data demonstrate clinical success rates of 66.3% for metronidazole
vs 78.5% for vancomycin for severe CDI. Newer therapies show promising results,
including fidaxomicin (similar clinical cure rates to vancomycin, with lower
recurrence rates for fidaxomicin, 15.4% vs vancomycin, 25.3%; P = .005) and fecal
microbiota transplantation (response rates of 83%-94% for recurrent CDI).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Diagnostic testing for CDI should be performed only in
symptomatic patients. Treatment strategies should be based on disease severity,
history of prior CDI, and the individual patient's risk of recurrence. Vancomycin
is the treatment of choice for severe or complicated CDI, with or without
adjunctive therapies. Metronidazole is appropriate for mild disease. Fidaxomicin 
is a therapeutic option for patients with recurrent CDI or a high risk of
recurrence. Fecal microbiota transplantation is associated with symptom
resolution of recurrent CDI but its role in primary and severe CDI is not
established.

PMID: 25626036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2015 Jan 27. pii: hyv006. [Epub ahead of print]

A randomized controlled Phase II/III study comparing endoscopic balloon dilation 
combined with steroid injection versus radial incision and cutting combined with 
steroid injection for refractory anastomotic stricture after esophagectomy: Japan
Clinical Oncology Group Study JCOG1207.

Kataoka K(1), Aoyama I(2), Mizusawa J(1), Eba J(1), Minashi K(3), Yano T(4),
Tanaka M(5), Hanaoka N(6), Katayama H(1), Takizawa K(5), Fukuda H(1), Muto M; on 
behalf of the Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Study Group (GIESG) of the Japan
Clinical Oncology Group.

Author information: 
(1)JCOG Data Center/Operations Office, Center for Research Administration and
Support, National Cancer Center, Tokyo. (2)Department of Therapeutic Oncology,
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto. (3)Clinical Trial Promotion
Department, Chiba Cancer Center, Chiba. (4)Department of Gastroenterology,
Endoscopy Division, National Cancer Center Hospital East, Chiba. (5)Endoscopy
Division, Shizuoka Cancer Center, Shizuoka. (6)Department of Gastrointestinal
Oncology, Osaka Medical Center for Cancer and Cardiovascular Diseases, Osaka,
Japan.

A randomized Phase II/III trial commenced in May 2014. Endoscopic balloon
dilation with steroid injection is the current standard treatment for patients
with refractory anastomotic stricture after esophagectomy. The purpose of this
study is to confirm the superiority of radial incision and cutting with steroid
injection in terms of both restricture-free survival and number of dilations
within 24 weeks compared with endoscopic balloon dilation with steroid injection 
for these patients. A total of 130 patients will be accrued from 30 Japanese
institutions over 3 years. The primary endpoint in the Phase II part is
proportion of Grade 3/4 intraoperative hemorrhages, post-operative esophageal
perforations, esophageal hemorrhages, pneumothorax, lung or mediastinum
infections or other unexpected adverse events. Co-primary endpoints in the Phase 
III part are restricture-free survival and number of dilations within 24 weeks
after treatment. Secondary endpoints are proportion of patients with anastomotic 
diameter >10 mm at 8 weeks after treatment, proportion of adverse events,
proportion of patients experiencing improvement of dysphagia score at 2, 4, 8 and
24 weeks after treatment and proportion of patients with dysphagia score ≤1 at 24
weeks after treatment. This trial has been registered in the UMIN Clinical Trials
Registry as UMIN000014017 [http://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr/index.htm].

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25628348  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


495. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2015 Jan 27. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2014.239. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Minimal residual disease in multiple myeloma: bringing the bench to the bedside.

Mailankody S(1), Korde N(2), Lesokhin AM(2), Lendvai N(2), Hassoun H(2),
Stetler-Stevenson M(3), Landgren O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Multiple Myeloma Section, Lymphoid Malignancies Branch, Centre for Cancer
Research, National Institutes of Health, National Cancer Institute, 9000
Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. (2)Myeloma Service, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA. (3)Flow
Cytometry Laboratory, Laboratory of Pathology, National Institutes of Health,
National Cancer Institute, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Outcomes for patients with multiple myeloma (MM) have improved substantially in
the past decade, with improvements in both progression-free survival and overall 
survival. Many patients are now achieving a complete response to treatment, and
consequently highly sensitive assays are needed for detection of minimal residual
disease (MRD) in patients with MM. Results of multicolour flow cytometry and
deep-sequencing studies suggest that among patients achieving a complete
response, MRD-negative status is associated with significant improvements in
progression-free survival and overall survival. Despite the increasing need for
MRD testing in patients with MM, considerable heterogeneity in techniques for MRD
detection hinders the clinical interpretation of their results. The criteria used
to define MRD, strengths and weaknesses of the major types of tests (flow
cytometry versus molecular testing), and the optimal sample type (bone marrow
aspirate versus peripheral blood) are all unresolved dilemmas in MRD testing.
This Review presents an overview of the various techniques for MRD detection in
patients with MM. In addition, this article discusses challenges and
opportunities for the routine use of MRD testing, possible future directions for 
clinical trials and implications for drug approval processes.

PMID: 25622976  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


496. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2015 Jan 27. doi: 10.1038/nrendo.2014.236. [Epub ahead of
print]

Thinking bedside at the bench: the NOD mouse model of T1DM.

Reed JC(1), Herold KC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, 300 George Street, #353E, New Haven, CT 06520,
USA. (2)Department of Immunobiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Yale
University, 300 George Street, #353E, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.

Studies over the past 35 years in the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse have shown
that a number of agents can prevent or even reverse type 1 diabetes mellitus
(T1DM); however, these successes have not been replicated in human clinical
trials. Although some of these interventions have delayed disease onset or
progression in subsets of participants, none have resulted in a complete cure.
Even in the most robust responders, the treatments do not permanently preserve
insulin secretion or stimulate the proliferation of β cells, as has been observed
in mice. The shortfalls of translating NOD mouse studies into the clinic
questions the value of using this model in preclinical studies. In this
Perspectives, we suggest how immunological and genetic differences between NOD
mice and humans might contribute to the differential outcomes and suggest ways in
which the mouse model might be modified or applied as a tool to develop
treatments and improve understanding of clinical trial outcomes.

PMID: 25623120  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


497. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S0033-0620(15)00002-X. doi:
10.1016/j.pcad.2015.01.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Positron-Emitting Myocardial Blood Flow Tracers and Clinical Potential.

Schindler TH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nuclear Medicine, Department of Radiology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. Electronic address:
tschind3@jhmi.edu.

In recent years, positron-emitting myocardial flow radiotracers such as
(15)O-water, (13)N-ammonia and (82)Rubidium in conjunction with
positron-emission-tomography (PET) are increasingly applied in clinical routine
for coronary artery disease (CAD) detection, yielding high diagnostic accuracy,
while providing valuable information on cardiovascular ( CV) outcome. Owing to a 
cyclotron dependency of (15)O-water and (13)N-ammonia, their clinical use for PET
myocardial perfusion imaging was limited to a few centres. This limitation could 
be overcome by the increasing use of (82)Rubidium as it can be eluted from a
commercially available (82)Strontium generator and, thus, is independent of a
nearby cyclotron. Another and novel F-18-labeled myocardial flow radiotracer is
Flurpiridaz that has attracted increasing interest due to its excellent
radiotracer characteristics for perfusion and flow imaging with PET. In
particular, the relatively long half-life of 109minutes of Flurpiridaz may afford
a general application of this radiotracer for PET perfusion imaging comparable to
technetium-99m-labeled single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The
ability of PET in conjunction with several radiotracers to assess myocardial
blood flow (MBF) in ml/g/min at rest and during vasomotor stress has contributed 
to unravel pathophysiological mechanisms underlying coronary artery disease
(CAD), to improve the detection and characterization of CAD burden in multivessel
disease, and to provide incremental prognostic information in individuals with
subclinical and clinically-manifest CAD. The concurrent evaluation of myocardial 
perfusion and MBF may lead to a new era of a personalized, image-guided therapy
approach that may offer potential to further improve clinical outcome in CV
disease patients but needing validation in large-scale clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25637500  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


498. Spine J. 2015 Jan 27. pii: S1529-9430(15)00076-5. doi:
10.1016/j.spinee.2015.01.027. [Epub ahead of print]

Spine Device Clinical Trials: Design and Sponsorship.

Cher D(1), Capobianco R(2).

Author information: 
(1)SI-BONE, Inc., 3055 Olin Avenue, Suite 220, San Jose, CA 95128. Electronic
address: dcher@si-bone.com. (2)SI-BONE, Inc., 3055 Olin Avenue, Suite 220, San
Jose, CA 95128.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Multicenter prospective randomized clinical trials (RCTs)
represent the best evidence to support the safety and effectiveness of medical
devices. Industry sponsorship of multicenter clinical trials is purported to lead
to bias.
PURPOSE: To determine what proportion of spine device-related trials are
industry-sponsored and the effect of industry sponsorship on trial design.
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING.: Analysis of data from a publicly available clinical trials
database.
METHODS: Clinical trials of spine devices registered on ClinicalTrials.gov, a
publicly accessible trial database, were evaluated in terms of design, number and
location of study centers, and sample size. The relationship between trial design
characteristics and study sponsorship was evaluated using logistic regression and
general linear models. No funding was received in support of this work.
RESULTS: 1638 studies were retrieved from ClinicalTrials.gov using the search
term "spine." Of the 367 trials that focused on spine surgery, 200 (54.5%)
specifically studied devices for spine surgery and 167 (45.5%) focused on other
issues related to spine surgery. Compared to non-device trials, device trials
were far more likely to be sponsored by industry (74% vs. 22.2%, odds ratio 9.9
[95% CI 6.1 - 16.3]). Industry-sponsored device trials were more likely
multicenter (80% vs. 29%, OR 9.8 [4.8 - 21.1]) and had approximately 4 times as
many participating study centers (p<.0001) and larger sample sizes. There were
very few U.S.-based multicenter randomized trials of spine devices not sponsored 
by industry.
CONCLUSIONS: Most device-related spine research is industry-sponsored.
Multicenter trials are more likely to be industry sponsored. These findings
suggest that previously published studies showing larger effect sizes in
industry-sponsored vs. non-industry sponsored studies may be biased as a result
of failure to take into account marked differences in design and purpose.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637470  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


499. Trials. 2015 Jan 27;16(1):28. [Epub ahead of print]

Empirical evidence for outcome reporting bias in randomized clinical trials of
acupuncture: comparison of registered records and subsequent publications.

Su CX, Han M, Ren J, Li WY, Yue SJ, Hao YF, Liu JP.

BackgroundOutcome reporting bias has received widespread recognition and been
considered to pose two threats to the validity of clinical decision making
because they overestimate the effect of treatments or distort the results of
trials. However, the problem of outcome-reporting bias has not been
systematically studied among randomized clinical trials of acupuncture. Our
objectives were to evaluate the consistency between the registered records and
subsequent publications with respect to outcomes and other data as well as to
determine whether outcome-reporting bias favors significant primary
outcomes.MethodsA systematic search of 15 registries was conducted from their
inception to January 2014 to identify randomized clinical trials on acupuncture
for which the status was listed as `completed.¿ The subsequent publications were 
retrieved by searching PubMed and three Chinese databases. Basic characteristics 
and the registration information were extracted from the registered records and
publications. We performed comparisons regarding primary outcomes and other data 
between the registered records and subsequent publications to assess the
consistency and selective outcome reporting.ResultsEighty-eight trials on
acupuncture with 96 published reports were identified. Only 19.3% (17/88) were
registered before the start of the trial, suggesting prospective registration.
The trial registration number was unavailable in 36 published reports (37.5%). A 
comparison of registered and published primary outcomes could be conducted in 71 
publications (74.0%), and the inconsistency of the primary outcomes was
identified in 45.1% (32 of 71); 71.4% (15 of 21) had a discrepancy that favored
statistically significant primary outcomes, while 28.6% (6 of 21) favored
nonsignificant primary outcomes. Furthermore, the other inconsistencies between
the registry records and subsequent publications involved the inclusion criteria 
(54.7%), exclusion criteria (47.9%) and controls (22.9%).ConclusionsWe find that 
prospective registration for randomized clinical trials on acupuncture is
insufficient, selective outcome reporting is prevalent, and the change of primary
outcomes is intended to favor statistical significance. These discrepancies in
outcome reporting may lead to biased and misleading results of randomized
clinical trials on acupuncture. To ensure publication of reliable and unbiased
results, further promotion and implementation of trial registration are still
needed.

PMCID: PMC4320495
PMID: 25626862  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


500. Trials. 2015 Jan 27;16(1):24. [Epub ahead of print]

Meropenem versus piperacillin-tazobactam for definitive treatment of bloodstream 
infections due to ceftriaxone non-susceptible Escherichia coli and Klebsiella spp
(the MERINO trial): study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.

Harris P, Peleg AY, Iredell J, Ingram PR, Miyakis S, Stewardson AJ, Rogers BA,
McBryde ES, Roberts JA, Lipman J, Athan E, Paul SK, Baker P, Harris-Brown T,
Paterson DL.

BackgroundGram-negative bacteria such as Escherichia coli or Klebsiella spp.
frequently cause bloodstream infections. There has been a worldwide increase in
resistance in these species to antibiotics such as third generation
cephalosporins, largely driven by the acquisition of extended-spectrum
beta-lactamase or plasmid-mediated AmpC enzymes. Carbapenems have been considered
the most effective therapy for serious infections caused by such resistant
bacteria; however, increased use creates selection pressure for carbapenem
resistance, an emerging threat arising predominantly from the dissemination of
genes encoding carbapenemases. Recent retrospective data suggest that
beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations, such as
piperacillin-tazobactam, may be non-inferior to carbapenems for the treatment of 
bloodstream infection caused by extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producers, if
susceptible in vitro. This study aims to test this hypothesis in an effort to
define carbapenem-sparing alternatives for these infections.Methods/DesignThe
study will use a multicentre randomised controlled open-label non-inferiority
trial design comparing two treatments, meropenem (standard arm) and
piperacillin-tazobactam (carbapenem-sparing arm) in adult patients with
bacteraemia caused by E. coli or Klebsiella spp. demonstrating non-susceptibility
to third generation cephalosporins. Recruitment is planned to occur in sites
across three countries (Australia, New Zealand and Singapore). A total sample
size of 454 patients will be required to achieve 80% power to determine
non-inferiority with a margin of 5%. Once randomised, definitive treatment will
be for a minimum of 4 days, but up to 14 days with total duration determined by
treating clinicians. Data describing demographic information, antibiotic use,
co-morbid conditions, illness severity, source of infection and other risk
factors will be collected. Vital signs, white cell count, use of vasopressors and
days to bacteraemia clearance will be recorded up to day 7. The primary outcome
measure will be mortality at 30 days, with secondary outcomes including days to
clinical and microbiological resolution, microbiological failure or relapse,
isolation of a multi-resistant organism or Clostridium difficile infection.Trial 
registrationThe MERINO trial is registered under the Australian New Zealand
Clinical Trials Register (ANZCTR), reference number: ACTRN12613000532707
(registered 13 May 2013) and the US National Institute of Health
ClinicalTrials.gov register, reference number: NCT02176122 (registered 24 June
2014).

PMCID: PMC4311465
PMID: 25623485  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


501. Trials. 2015 Jan 27;16(1):30. [Epub ahead of print]

Lignocaine/phenylephrine nasal spray vs. placebo for the pain and distress of
nasogastric tube insertion in children: a study protocol for a randomized
controlled trial.

Craig SS, Seith RW, Cheek JA, West A, Wilson K, Egerton-Warburton D.

BackgroundPatients and clinicians consistently rate insertion of a nasogastric
tube (NGT) as one of the most painful and distressing emergency department
procedures. Despite this, surveys of emergency clinicians suggest that provision 
of adequate procedural analgesia is often inconsistent and suboptimal. While many
studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of various interventions to reduce
pain and distress in adults, there have been few studies in the pediatric
population. There are currently no studies comparing the effectiveness of a local
anesthetic nasal spray for the prevention of the pain and distress associated
with NGT insertion in children. This study aims to compare the analgesic efficacy
of a proprietary preparation of lignocaine/phenylephrine nasal spray and placebo 
for this indication.Methods/DesignThis is a prospective, randomized, controlled, 
double-blind superiority trial of 100 children aged 6 months to 5 years weighing 
at least 6 kg in whom a nasogastric tube is planned to be inserted. These
children will be randomized to either intranasal lignocaine/phenylephrine or
placebo. Pain severity is the primary outcome measure and will be measured
utilizing the Face, Legs, Arms, Cry and Consolability (FLACC) pain severity
rating scale. An independent staff member not involved in inserting the NGT and
the child¿s parents or carer will also record pain and distress on a visual
analog scale (VAS). FLACC scores and VAS scores will be presented as median and
interquartile range (IQR). Non-normally distributed scores will be compared using
a Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Categorical data will be analyzed using Fisher¿s exact 
test. Adverse events will be described as type and incidence.DiscussionPrevious
studies on NGT insertion have not focused on the pediatric population. This study
aims to establish the effectiveness of a simple intranasal spray of
lignocaine/phenylephrine in children undergoing NGT insertion. A positive result 
of this study would provide evidence of an effective intervention in a procedure 
considered by many to be very painful and distressing.Trial
registrationAustralian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR).
ACTRN12614000092695, registered on 23 January 2014.

PMCID: PMC4318482
PMID: 25622681  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


502. Trials. 2015 Jan 27;16(1):26. [Epub ahead of print]

A phase II trial for the efficacy of physiotherapy intervention for early-onset
hip osteoarthritis: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.

Kemp JL, Moore K, Fransen M, Russell T, Crossley KM.

BackgroundEarly-onset hip osteoarthritis is commonly seen in people undergoing
hip arthroscopy and is associated with increased pain, reduced ability to
participate in physical activity, reduced quality of life and reduced range of
motion and muscle strength. Despite this, the efficacy of non-surgical
interventions such as exercise therapies remains unknown. The primary aim is to
establish the feasibility of a phase III randomised controlled trial
investigating a targeted physiotherapy intervention for people with early-onset
hip osteoarthritis. The secondary aims are to determine the size of treatment
effects of a physiotherapy intervention, targeted to improve hip joint range and 
hip-related symptoms in early-onset hip osteoarthritis following hip arthroscopy,
compared to a health-education control.MethodsThis protocol describes a
randomised, assessor- and participant-blind, controlled clinical trial. We will
include 20 participants who are (i) aged between 18 and 50 years; (ii) have
undergone hip arthroscopy during the past six to 12 months; (iii) have
early-onset hip osteoarthritis (defined as chondrolabral pathology) at the time
of hip arthroscopy; and (iv) experience hip-related pain during activities.
Primary outcome will be the feasibility of a phase III clinical trial. Secondary 
outcomes will be (i) perceived global change score; (ii) hip-related symptoms
(measured using the Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS) pain
subscale, activity subscale, and sport and recreation subscale); (iii) hip
quality of life (measured using the HOOS quality of life subscale and
International Hip Outcome tool; (iv) hip muscle strength and (v) hip range of
motion. The physiotherapy intervention is semi-standardised, including joint and 
soft tissue mobilisation and stretching, hip and trunk muscle retraining and
functional and activity-specific retraining and education. The control
intervention encompasses individualised health education, with the same frequency
and duration as the intervention. The trial primary end-point is the conclusion
of the 12-week intervention, and follow-up measures will be collected at the
12-week post-baseline assessment.DiscussionThe findings of this study will
provide guidance regarding the feasibility of a full-scale phase III randomised
controlled trial, prior to its undertaking.Trial registrationThe trial protocol
was registered with the Australian Clinical Trials Registry (number:
12614000426684) on 17 April 2014.

PMCID: PMC4318367
PMID: 25622524  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


503. World J Hepatol. 2015 Jan 27;7(1):1-6. doi: 10.4254/wjh.v7.i1.1.

Diagnostic and therapeutic application of noncoding RNAs for hepatocellular
carcinoma.

Shibata C(1), Otsuka M(1), Kishikawa T(1), Ohno M(1), Yoshikawa T(1), Takata
A(1), Koike K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Chikako Shibata, Motoyuki Otsuka, Takahiro Kishikawa, Motoko Ohno, Takeshi
Yoshikawa, Akemi Takata, Kazuhiko Koike, Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate
School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, noncoding RNA molecules that regulate gene
expression posttranscriptionally, targeting thousands of messenger RNAs. Long
noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), another class of noncoding RNAs, have been determined
to be also involved in transcription regulation and translation of target genes. 
Since deregulated expression levels or functions of miRNAs and lncRNAs in
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are frequently observed, clinical use of noncoding
RNAs for novel diagnostic and therapeutic applications in the management of HCCs 
is highly and emergently expected. Here, we summarize recent findings regarding
deregulated miRNAs and lncRNAs for their potential clinical use as diagnostic and
prognostic biomarkers of HCC. Specifically, we emphasize the deregulated
expression levels of such noncoding RNAs in patients' sera as noninvasive
biomarkers, a field that requires urgent improvement in the clinical surveillance
of HCC. Since nucleotide-based strategies are being applied to clinical
therapeutics, we further summarize clinical and preclinical trials using
oligonucleotides involving the use of miRNAs and small interfering RNAs against
HCC as novel therapeutics. Finally, we discuss current open questions, which must
be clarified in the near future for realistic clinical applications of these new 
strategies.

PMCID: PMC4295186
PMID: 25624991  [PubMed]


504. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan 26. pii: S0002-9394(15)00048-3. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2015.01.019. [Epub ahead of print]

Primary Congenital Glaucoma outcomes: Lessons from 23 years of follow-up.

Zagora SL(1), Funnell CL(2), Martin FJ(3), Smith JE(3), Hing S(4), Billson FA(3),
Veillard AS(5), Jamieson RV(6), Grigg JR(7).

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Ophthalmology, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia;
Department of Ophthalmology, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, NSW,
Australia. Electronic address: sophia.zagora@gmail.com. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, NSW, Australia;
Consultant Ophthalmologist, Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals, National
Hospital Service Trust, London, UK. (3)Discipline of Ophthalmology, University of
Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Department of Ophthalmology, The Children's
Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, NSW, Australia. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, The
Children's Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, NSW, Australia. (5)National Health and
Medical Research Council Clinical trials Centre, University of Sydney, Sydney,
NSW, Australia. (6)Discipline of Ophthalmology, University of Sydney, Sydney,
NSW, Australia; Eye and Developmental Genetics Research Group, Western Sydney
Genetics Program, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, NSW, Australia;
Children's Medical Research Institute, Westmead, Sydney, NSW, Australia;
Discipline of Paediatrics and Child Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia. (7)Discipline of Ophthalmology, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia; Eye and Developmental Genetics Research Group, Western Sydney Genetics
Program, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, NSW, Australia; Department 
of Ophthalmology, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

PURPOSE: To determine in Primary Congenital Glaucoma whether age of presentation 
influences surgical success, the degrees of angle surgery needed to achieve
glaucoma control and whether there are critical ages where glaucoma progresses
requiring further surgical management.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study METHODS: The medical records of patients with 
Primary Congenital Glaucoma over a 23 year period were reviewed -192 procedures
were performed on 117 eyes (70 patients). The number and age of angle procedures 
and final visual acuity was analyzed. Surgical success was defined as stable IOP 
and optic disc appearance.
RESULTS: 83 of the 110 (75.5%) eyes undergoing angle surgery were successful with
2, 4, 6 and 10 year success rates of 92%, 86%, 84% and 75% respectively. Subgroup
analysis (<3 mths; 3-6 mths; >6mths) comparing age of diagnosis, to visual
outcome of (<20/200; 20/200-20/40 >20/40) was significant (p = 0.04). The age at 
first operation (p=0.94), the number of angle operations (p=0.43) and their
effect on angle surgery success was not significant. 7/192 operations were
performed after the age of 8 years (3.6%). After the initial angle surgeries
within the first year of life, the third procedure occurred at a median age of
2.4 years (IQR 0.6 -3.8 years) and the fourth procedure occurred at a median age 
of 5.3 years (IQR 2.5 - 6.1 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Children diagnosed at <3 months of age had a visual outcome of
<20/200 despite successful glaucoma control. Age of presentation did not affect
surgical success. 78.9% of cases undergoing primary trabeculotomy were controlled
with one operation - 4 clock hours of angle (120 degrees). Analysis of glaucoma
progression suggests critical ages where further glaucoma surgery is required at 
around 2 and 5 years of age.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25634533  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


505. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan 26. pii: S0002-9394(15)00051-3. doi:
10.1016/j.ajo.2015.01.022. [Epub ahead of print]

International Photographic Classification and Grading System for Myopic
Maculopathy.

Ohno-Matsui K(1), Kawasaki R(2), Jonas JB(3), Gemmy Cheung CM(4), Saw SM(4),
Verhoeven VJ(5), Klaver CC(5), Moriyama M(6), Shinohara K(6), Kawasaki Y(2),
Yamazaki M(7), Meuer S(8), Ishibashi T(9), Yasuda M(9), Yamashita H(10), Sugano
A(10), Wang JJ(11), Mitchell P(11), Wong TY(4); META-analysis for Pathologic
Myopia (META-PM) Study Group; META-analysis for Pathologic Myopia META-PM Study
Group.

Collaborators: Ohno-Matsui K, Moriyama M, Shinohara K, Kawasaki R, Kawasaki Y,
Yamazaki M, Jonas JB, Gemmy Cheung CM, Saw SM, Wong TY, Verhoeven VJ, Klaver CC, 
Meuer S, Klein R, Klein BE, Ishibashi T, Yasuda M, Sugano A, Yamashita H, Wang
JJ, Mitchell P, Wang NL, Hashemi H, Fotouhi A, Polašek O, Vitart V, Wilson JF,
Fleck B.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
k.ohno.oph@med.tmd.ac.jp. (2)Department of Public Health, Yamagata University,
Yamagata, Japan. (3)Department of Ophthalmology of the Medical Faculty Mannheim
of the Ruprecht-Karls-University, Heidelberg, Germany. (4)Singapore Eye Research 
Institutes, National University of Singapore, Singapore. (5)Department of
Ophthalmology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands. (6)Tokyo Medical
and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan. (7)Tohoku Central Hospital, Yamagata, Japan.
(8)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin
School of Medicine and Public Health , Madison, WI, USA. (9)Department of
Ophthalmology, Kyusyu University, Fukuoka, Japan. (10)Department of
Ophthalmology, Yamagata University, Yamagata, Japan. (11)Centre for Vision
Research, Department of Ophthalmology and Westmead Millennium Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

PURPOSE: To develop a classification and grading system for myopic maculopathy.
DESIGN: Development and evaluation of a classification system for myopic
maculopathy based on observational case series.
METHODS: A comprehensive set of myopic macular lesions was defined via literature
review and through consensus meetings among retinal specialists and clinician
scientists. A classification of myopic maculopathy was formulated based on fundus
photographs and a modified Delphi process and consensus. Inter- and
intra-observer reproducibility, assessed as agreement (%) and weighted kappa
values, were evaluated. One-hundred retinal photographs with myopia and myopic
macular lesions were selected from case series at the High Myopia Clinic of the
Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo Japan.
RESULTS: We defined 5 categories of myopic maculopathy including "no myopic
retinal degenerative lesion" (Category 0), "tessellated fundus" (Category 1),
"diffuse chorioretinal atrophy" (Category 2), "patchy chorioretinal atrophy"
(Category 3), and "macular atrophy" (Category 4). Three additional features to
supplement these categories were defined as "plus" lesions, namely, lacquer
cracks, myopic choroidal neovascularization, Fuchs' spot. Posterior staphyloma
was considered as a further important, sign of myopic retinopathy. The
intra-observer agreement was ≥85% and the corresponding weighted kappa statistic 
was ≥0.6 between observations. After a brief training session, inter-observer
kappa statistics reached the predefined satisfactory level (≥0.4), considered as 
above moderate agreement.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose a classification system for myopic maculopathy which was 
found to be reproducible. Applying a uniform classification in different studies 
will facilitate communication and comparison of findings from clinical trials and
epidemiological studies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25634530  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


506. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2015 Jan 26. pii: 14-0490. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparing the Impact of Artemisinin-Based Combination Therapies on Malaria
Transmission in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Ndeffo Mbah ML(1), Parikh S(2), Galvani AP(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Public Health, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
Martial.Ndeffo-Mbah@yale.edu. (2)School of Public Health, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut.

Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) are currently considered the
first-line treatments for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. Among
these, artemether-lumefantrine (AL) has been the most widely prescribed ACT in
sub-Saharan Africa. Recent clinical trials conducted in sub-Saharan Africa have
shown that dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP), a most recent ACT, may have a
longer post-treatment prophylactic period and post-treatment infection period
(duration of gametocyte carriage) than AL. Using epidemiological and clinical
data on the efficacy of AL and DP, we developed and parameterized a mathematical 
transmission model that we used to compare the population-level impact of AL and 
DP for reducing P. falciparum malaria transmission in sub-Saharan Africa. Our
results showed that DP is likely to more effectively reduce malaria incidence of 
clinical episodes than AL. However in low P. falciparum transmission areas, DP
and AL are likely to be equally effective in reducing malaria prevalence. The
predictions of our model were shown to be robust to the empirical uncertainty
summarizing the epidemiological parameters. DP should be considered as a
replacement for AL as first-line treatment of uncomplicated malaria in highly
endemic P. falciparum communities. To optimize the effectiveness of ACTs, it is
necessary to tailor treatment policies to the transmission intensity in different
settings.

© The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.

PMID: 25624402  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


507. Ann Oncol. 2015 Jan 26. pii: mdv029. [Epub ahead of print]

Drug-drug interactions in patients treated for cancer: a prospective study on
clinical interventions.

van Leeuwen RW(1), Jansman FG(2), van den Bemt PM(3), de Man F(3), Piran F(3),
Vincenten I(3), Jager A(4), Rijneveld AW(5), Brugma JD(3), Mathijssen RH(4), van 
Gelder T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hospital Pharmacy, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam,
The Netherlands r.w.f.vanleeuwen@erasmusmc.nl. (2)Department of Clinical
Pharmacy, Deventer Hospital, Deventer, The Netherlands Department of
Pharmacotherapy and Pharmaceutical Care, State University Groningen, Groningen,
The Netherlands. (3)Department of Hospital Pharmacy, Erasmus University Medical
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (4)Department of Medical Oncology, Erasmus MC
Cancer Institute, Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Hematology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Hospital Pharmacy, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam,
The Netherlands Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus University Medical
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Drug-drug interactions (DDIs) are of major concern in oncology, since
cancer patients typically take many concomitant medications. Retrospective
studies have been conducted to determine the prevalence of DDIs. However,
prospective studies on DDIs needing interventions in cancer patients have not yet
been performed. Therefore, a prospective study was designed to identify DDIs
leading to interventions among ambulatory cancer patients receiving anticancer
treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients starting with a new treatment regimen with
intravenous or oral anticancer medication were asked to participate. The
patients' medication was checked for DDIs by using drug interaction software. An 
expert team of clinical pharmacologists evaluated the relevance of these
identified DDIs. If a DDI was qualified as potentially clinically relevant, an
intervention was proposed to the treating (hemato)oncologist. Several variables
were studied as determinants for performing an intervention. Descriptive
statistics and uni- and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In this study 302 patients were included. A total of 603 DDIs were
identified by the drug interaction software and judged by the expert team. Of all
603 DDIs, 120 DDIs were considered potentially clinically relevant. These 120
DDIs, present in a total of 81 patients, resulted in a clinical intervention
already executed by the (hemato)oncologist in 39 patients (13%), while an
additional intervention was proposed by a clinical pharmacologist in 42 patients 
(14%). The number of comorbidities and the number of "over-the-counter"-drugs
were identified as determinants.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical interventions on DDIs are frequently required among
patients starting with anticancer therapy. Structured screening for these
potentially clinically relevant DDIs, by (hemato)oncologists in close
collaborations with clinical pharmacologists, should take place before the start 
and during anticancer treatment.
CLINICAL TRIALS NUMBER: This study was registered at the Dutch Trial Registry
under number NTR3760.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25628444  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


508. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Jan 26. pii: AAC.04127-14. [Epub ahead of
print]

In vitro assessment of dual drug combinations to inhibit growth of Neisseria
gonorrhoeae.

Pettus K(1), Sharpe S(1), Papp J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia. (2)Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia jwp6@cdc.gov.

Development of resistance to first line antimicrobial therapies has led to the
recommendation to use combination therapies for gonorrhea. Recent studies have
shown success of combination therapy in treating patients but few report in vitro
activity of drug combinations. The in vitro assessment of azithromycin in
combination with gentamicin demonstrated inhibition of growth and suggests that
clinical trials of effectiveness may be warranted to assess their utility in
treating gonorrhea infections.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

PMID: 25624328  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


509. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Jan 26. pii: AAC.04701-14. [Epub ahead of
print]

Depot Medroxyprogesterone Acetate (DMPA) in Combination with Twice Daily
Lopinavir/Ritonavir-Based Regimen in HIV-Infected Women: Effective Contraception,
Lack of Clinically Significant Interactions, with Good Safety and Tolerability:
Results of ACTG 5283.

Luque AE(1), Cohn SE(2), Park JG(3), Cramer Y(3), Weinberg A(4), Livingston E(5),
Klingman KL(6), Aweeka F(7), Watts DH(8).

Author information: 
(1)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY
amneris_luque@urmc.rochester.edu. (2)Northwestern University Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, IL. (3)Statistical and Data Analysis Center, Harvard School of
Public Health, Boston, MA. (4)University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO. (5)Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, NC. (6)Division of AIDS, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, MD. (7)University of California, San Francisco, CA.
(8)Office of the Global AIDS Coordinator, U.S. Department of State, Washington,
DC.

We conducted an open-label, steady-state pharmacokinetic (PK) study of drug-drug 
interactions between DMPA and twice daily lopinavir plus low dose ritonavir
(LPV/r) among 24 HIV-infected women, and compared results to those of
HIV-infected women receiving DMPA while on no antiretroviral therapy or
nucleosides only (N=14, control arm of ACTG 5093). The objectives of the study
were to address the effect of LPV/r on DMPA and to address the effect of DMPA on 
LPV/r therapy. PK parameters were estimated using non-compartmental analysis,
with between-group comparisons of medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) PK and
within-subject comparisons of lopinavir (LPV) and ritonavir (RTV) PK before and 4
weeks after DMPA dosing. Plasma progesterone concentrations were measured every
two weeks after DMPA dosing through week 12. Although MPA area under the
concentration-time curve and Cmax were statistically significantly increased in
study women on LPV/r compared to historical controls, these increases were not
considered clinically significant. There were no changes in LPV and RTV drug
exposure after DMPA. DMPA was well tolerated and suppression of ovulation was
maintained. (Clinical Trials.gov number, NCT 01296152).

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

PMID: 25624326  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


510. Arthroscopy. 2015 Jan 26. pii: S0749-8063(14)00935-9. doi:
10.1016/j.arthro.2014.11.017. [Epub ahead of print]

Scaffold-Based Cartilage Treatments: With or Without Cells? A Systematic Review
of Preclinical and Clinical Evidence.

Kon E(1), Roffi A(2), Filardo G(3), Tesei G(4), Marcacci M(4).

Author information: 
(1)II Clinic-Biomechanics Laboratory and Nano-Biotechnology Laboratory, Rizzoli
Orthopaedic Institute, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: e.kon@biomec.ior.it.
(2)Nano-Biotechnology Laboratory, Rizzoli Orthopaedic Institute, Bologna, Italy; 
II Clinic-Biomechanics Laboratory and Nano-Biotechnology Laboratory, Rizzoli
Orthopaedic Institute, Bologna, Italy. (3)Nano-Biotechnology Laboratory, Rizzoli 
Orthopaedic Institute, Bologna, Italy. (4)II Clinic-Biomechanics Laboratory and
Nano-Biotechnology Laboratory, Rizzoli Orthopaedic Institute, Bologna, Italy.

PURPOSE: Regenerative scaffold-based procedures are emerging as a potential
therapeutic option for the treatment of chondral and osteochondral lesions. In
general, we can summarize most of the recent developments to reach clinical
application into 2 major trends: the use of different cell sources or the
application of biomaterials as a cell-free approach. The aim of this systematic
review was to analyze both preclinical and clinical studies on these new trends
to understand how the available evidence supports the use of cell sources or
justifies the cell-free approach for the scaffold-based treatment of cartilage
lesions.
METHODS: The research was performed using the PubMed database by looking at
studies published in the English language referring to chondral or osteochondral 
defect repair with scaffold-based procedures until the end of 2013. The following
strings were used: ("cartilage"[MeSH] AND "tissue scaffolds"[MeSH]).
RESULTS: The search showed an increasing number of published articles each year
for both scaffold-based approaches, identifying a total of 305 articles. Among
clinical trials, 116 used cell-based scaffold treatments and 11 used scaffolds
alone. In the preclinical setting, a scaffold/cell combination was the most used 
treatment approach (133 v 45 articles), with mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) being 
the favorite cell type. Bone marrow was the most used cell source, but other
sources are gaining interest. Among articles comparing scaffolds with or without 
cells, the majority reported superior results for cells (71 of 89 articles). In
the clinical setting, most of the articles analyzed chondrocyte-based scaffolds, 
with only 7 studies using MSCs; all cells were from bone marrow. Despite the
lower number of articles, cell-free scaffolds are gaining popularity, with a
recent increase in published studies showing promising results.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review underlined the difficulties in understanding 
the real need for cells to increase the scaffold-based cartilage healing
potential because of the heterogeneity of products used as well as the design of 
the published studies. Scaffold and cell combinations were the most investigated 
option in the preclinical setting, showing generally superior results, but in the
clinical setting, both strategies remain used. In particular, although
chondrocytes are the most commonly used cell type, research showed increasing
interest in the potential of MSCs for cartilage regeneration. However, the
difficulties in managing cell cultures, together with the development of a new
generation of materials able to exploit the intrinsic tissue regeneration
ability, justifies the clinical use of cell-free scaffolds, with increasing
literature and promising preliminary results.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, systematic review of Level I to IV studies.

Copyright © 2015 Arthroscopy Association of North America. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25633817  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


511. Autoimmun Rev. 2015 Jan 26. pii: S1568-9972(15)00029-4. doi:
10.1016/j.autrev.2015.01.014. [Epub ahead of print]

Skewing dendritic cell differentiation towards a tolerogenic state for recovery
of tolerance in rheumatoid arthritis.

Schinnerling K(1), Soto L(1), García-González P(1), Catalán D(2), Aguillón JC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Programa Disciplinario de Inmunología, Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas
(ICBM), Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile; Millennium
Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Santiago, Chile. (2)Programa
Disciplinario de Inmunología, Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas (ICBM), Facultad
de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile; Millennium Institute on
Immunology and Immunotherapy, Santiago, Chile. Electronic address:
dfcatalan@med.uchile.cl. (3)Programa Disciplinario de Inmunología, Instituto de
Ciencias Biomédicas (ICBM), Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Santiago,
Chile; Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy, Santiago, Chile.
Electronic address: jaguillo@med.uchile.cl.

To date, the available options to treat autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid
arthritis (RA) include traditional corticoids and biological drugs, which are not
exempt of adverse effects. The development of cellular therapies based on
dendritic cells with tolerogenic functions (TolDCs) has opened a new possibility 
to efficiently eradicate symptoms and control the immune response in the field of
autoimmunity. TolDCs are an attractive tool for antigen-specific immunotherapy to
restore self-tolerance in RA and other autoimmune disorders. A promising strategy
is to inject autologous self-antigen-loaded TolDCs, which are able to delete or
reprogram autoreactive T cells. Different protocols for the generation of stable 
human TolDCs have been established and the therapeutic effect of TolDCs has been 
investigated in multiple rodent models of arthritis. Pilot studies in humans
confirmed that TolDC application is safe, encouraging clinical trials using
self-antigen-loaded TolDCs in RA patients. Although an abundance of molecular
regulators of DC functions has been discovered in the last decade, no master
regulator of tolerogenicity has been identified yet. Further research is required
to define biomarkers or key regulators of tolerogenicity that might facilitate
the induction and monitoring of TolDCs.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25633325  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


512. Blood. 2015 Jan 26. pii: blood-2014-10-607341. [Epub ahead of print]

An international consortium proposal of uniform response criteria for
myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPN) in adults.

Savona MR(1), Malcovati L(2), Komrokji R(3), Tiu RV(4), Mughal TI(5), Orazi A(6),
Kiladjian JJ(7), Padron E(3), Solary E(8), Tibes R(9), Itzykson R(7), Cazzola
M(2), Mesa R(9), Maciejewski J(4), Fenaux P(7), Garcia-Manero G(10), Gerds A(4), 
Sanz G(11), Niemeyer CM(12), Cervantes F(13), Germing U(14), Cross NC(15), List
AF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center/Vanderbilt University Medical Center, TN,
United States; michael.savona@vanderbilt.edu. (2)University of Pavia and
Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy; (3)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer
Center, Tampa, FL, United States; (4)Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute,
Cleveland, OH, United States; (5)Tufts University Medical Center, Boston, MA,
United States; (6)Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, United States;
(7)Hopital Saint-Louis, Assistance Publique - Hopitaux de Paris, Universite Paris
Diderot, Paris, France; (8)Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France; (9)Mayo
Clinic Cancer Center, Scottsdale, AZ, United States; (10)MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, United States; (11)Hospital Universitario y Politecnico La
Fe, Valencia, Spain; (12)University of Freiburg, Germany; (13)IDIBAPS, University
of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; (14)University of Duesseldorf, Duesseldorf,
Germany; (15)University of Southampton, and Wessex Regional Genetics Laboratory, 
Salisbury, United Kingdom.

MDS/MPN are hematologically diverse stem cell malignancies sharing phenotypic
features of both myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and myeloproliferative neoplasms
(MPN). Currently there are no standard treatment recommendations for most adult
patients with MDS/MPN. In order to optimize efforts to improve the management and
disease outcomes it is essential to identify meaningful clinical and biologic
endpoints, and standardized response criteria for clinical trials. The dual
dysplastic and proliferative features in these stem cell malignancies define
their uniqueness and challenges. We propose response assessment guidelines to
harmonize future clinical trials with the principal objective of establishing
suitable treatment algorithms. An international panel comprised of laboratory and
clinical experts in MDS/MPN was established involving three independent academic 
MDS/MPN workshops (March 2013, Dec 2013, and June 2014). These recommendations
are the result of this collaborative project sponsored by the MDS Foundation.

Copyright © 2015 American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 25624319  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


513. BMC Pharmacol Toxicol. 2015 Jan 26;16(1):1. [Epub ahead of print]

Interventions to decrease the risk of adverse cardiac events for patients
receiving chemotherapy and serotonin (5-HT3) receptor antagonists: a systematic
review.

Tricco AC, Soobiah C, Hui W, Antony J, Struchkov V, Hutton B, Hemmelgarn B, Moher
D, Straus SE.

BACKGROUND: Patients may experience nausea and vomiting when undergoing
chemotherapy or surgery requiring anesthesia. Serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine 3
(5-HT3) receptor antagonists are effective antiemetics, yet may cause adverse
cardiac events, such as arrhythmia. We aimed to identify interventions that
mitigate the cardiac risk of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists.
METHODS: Electronic databases, trial registries, and references were searched.
Studies on patients undergoing chemotherapy or surgery examining interventions to
monitor cardiac risk of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists were included. Search results 
were screened and data from relevant studies were abstracted in duplicate. Risk
of bias of included studies was assessed using the Cochrane Effective Practice
and Organisation of Care (EPOC) group's risk-of-bias tool. Due to a dearth of
included studies, meta-analysis was not conducted.
RESULTS: Two randomized clinical trials (RCT) and 1 non-randomized clinical trial
(NRCT) were included after screening 7,637 titles and abstracts and 1,554
full-text articles. Intravenous administration of different dolasetron doses was 
examined in the NRCT, while dolasetron versus ondansetron and palonosetron versus
ondansetron were examined in the RCT. Electrocardiogram (ECG) was the only
intervention examined to mitigate cardiac harm. No differences in ECG evaluations
were observed between dolasetron or palonosetron versus ondansetron after 15
minutes, 24 hours, and 1 week post-administration in the 2 RCTs. Four deaths were
observed in one RCT, which were deemed unrelated to palonosetron or ondansetron
administration. Minor increases in PR and QT intervals were observed in the NRCT 
for dolasetron dosages greater than 1.2 mg/kg 1-2 hours post-administration, but 
were deemed not clinically relevant.
CONCLUSIONS: ECG monitoring of chemotherapy patients administered with 5-HT3
receptor antagonists did not reveal clinically significant differences in
arrhythmia between the medications at the examined time periods. The usefulness
of ECG to monitor chemotherapy patients administered with 5-HT3 receptor
antagonists remains unclear, as all patients received ECG monitoring.Trial
registration: PROSPERO registry number: CRD42013003565.

PMID: 25623303  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


514. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Jan 26. pii: canimm.0226.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

Induced PD-L1 expression mediates acquired resistance to agonistic anti-CD40
treatment.

Zippelius A(1), Schreiner J(2), Herzig P(2), Mueller P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital Basel
alfred.zippelius@usb.ch. (2)Cancer Immunology & Biology, Department of
Biomedicine, University Hospital Basel.

CD40 stimulation on antigen presenting cells (APCs) allows direct activation of
CD8+ cytotoxic T-cells, independent of CD4+ T-cell help. Agonistic anti-CD40
antibodies have been demonstrated to induce beneficial anti-tumor T-cell
responses in mouse models of cancer and early clinical trials. We report here
that anti-CD40 treatment induces programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) upregulation
on tumor infiltrating monocytes and macrophages, which was strictly dependent on 
T-cells and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). PD-L1 expression could be counteracted by
co-administration of antibodies blocking the PD-1 (programmed death-1)/PD-L1 axis
as shown for T-cells from tumor models and human donors. The combined treatment
was highly synergistic and induced complete tumor rejection in about 50% of mice 
bearing MC-38 colon and EMT-6 breast tumors. Mechanistically, this was reflected 
by a strong increase of IFN-γ and granzyme-B production in intra-tumoral CD8+
T-cells. Concomitant CTLA-4 blockade further improved rejection of established
tumors in mice. This study uncovers a novel mechanism of acquired resistance upon
agonistic CD40 stimulation and proposes that the concomitant blockade of the
PD-1/PD-L1 axis is a viable therapeutic strategy to optimize clinical outcomes.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25623164  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


515. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jan 26. pii: S1542-3565(15)00100-7. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2015.01.014. [Epub ahead of print]

The Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drug Diclofenac Reduces Acid-Induced
Heartburn Symptoms in Healthy Volunteers.

Kondo T(1), Oshima T(1), Tomita T(1), Fukui H(1), Okada H(2), Watari J(1), Miwa
H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College
of Medicine, Hyogo, Japan. (2)Minase Research Institute, Pharmacological Research
Laboratories, Ono Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, Osaka, Japan. (3)Division of
Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine,
Hyogo, Japan. Electronic address: miwahgi@hyo-med.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: We investigated the effects of diclofenac, a nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drug (inhibits prostaglandin production), on induction of
esophageal sensation by acid perfusion in healthy men.
METHODS: We performed prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-period
crossover study over 3 visits in 12 healthy men. Diclofenac was given 6 hrs and 2
hrs before an acid perfusion test. During the test, hydrochloric acid (0.15
mol/L) was perfused into the lower esophagus for 30 min; we evaluated upper
gastrointestinal symptoms using a validated categorical rating scale. Then, we
calculated and assessed the acid perfusion sensitivity score (APSS). Biopsies
were collected by endoscopy of the distal esophagus before and after acid
perfusion; levels of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) (pg/mg) were measured in the samples
using an ELISA.
RESULTS: Compared with placebo, diclofenac significantly reduced the APSS for
heartburn (82.2±12.2 for placebo and 47.5±8.9 for diclofenac; P<.01). Of the
upper gastrointestinal symptoms, only the APSS for heartburn was significantly
reduced by diclofenac. Compared with placebo, diclofenac reduced the
overproduction of PGE2 by esophageal tissues after acid perfusion (23.3±5.2 for
placebo and 11.4±3.5 for diclofenac; P<.05). APSS correlated with development of 
heartburn and esophageal levels of PGE2 (r=0.53; P<.05 for diclofenac vs
placebo).
CONCLUSIONS: Diclofenac attenuated acid-induced heartburn by inhibiting PGE2
overproduction in the esophagus. Esophageal PGE2 might be involved in producing
the symptoms of heartburn. Clinical Trials Registry Number: UMIN000014595.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25632805  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


516. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jan 26. pii: S1542-3565(15)00094-4. doi:
10.1016/j.cgh.2015.01.008. [Epub ahead of print]

No Benefit of Endoscopic Sphincterotomy Before Biliary Placement of
Self-expandable Metal Stents for Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer.

Hayashi T(1), Kawakami H(2), Osanai M(3), Ishiwatari H(4), Naruse H(5), Hisai
H(6), Yanagawa N(7), Kaneto H(8), Koizumi K(9), Sakurai T(10), Sonoda T(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Sapporo Medical University
School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan. Electronic address: thayashi69@sapmed.ac.jp. 
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Hokkaido University Graduate
School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan. (3)Center for Gastroenterology,
Teine-Keijinkai Hospital, Sapporo, Japan. (4)Department of Medical Oncology and
Hematology, Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Hakodate Municipal Hospital, Hakodate, Japan. 
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Japan Red Cross Date General Hospital, Date,
Japan. (7)Department of Gastroenterology, Asahikawa-Kosei General Hospital,
Asahikawa, Japan. (8)Department of Gastroenterology, Muroran City General
Hospital, Muroran, Japan. (9)Division of Gastroenterology and
Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Asahikawa Medical University,
Asahikawa, Japan. (10)Department of Gastroenterology, Steel Memorial Muroran
Hospital, Muroran, Japan. (11)Department of Public Health, Sapporo Medical
University School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: & Aims: Endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) is routinely performed before 
self-expandable metallic stents (SEMS) are placed in malignant distal biliary
strictures, to prevent post-procedural pancreatitis. However, it is not clear
whether ES actually prevents pancreatitis or affects other adverse events (AEs). 
We conducted a non-inferiority trial to examine the necessity of ES before SEMS
placement.
METHODS: Two-hundred patients with distal biliary strictures caused by
unresectable pancreatic cancer were randomly assigned to groups that received ES 
or did not receive ES (non-ES) before SEMS placement, at 25 hospitals in
Hokkaido, Japan, from August 2010 through November 2012. The primary outcome was 
early AEs (≤ 30 days) specifically related to the presence or absence of ES
(pancreatitis, bleeding, or perforation). Secondary outcomes measured included
effect of ES omission on time to SEMS dysfunction and patient survival times.
RESULTS: The proportions of patients with early AEs were 9.2% in the non-ES group
and 10.4% the ES group (a difference of 1.2%, non-inferior). The median times to 
SEMS dysfunction is longer than 594 days in the non-ES group and 541 days in the 
ES group (P=.88). The median overall survival times were 202 in the ES group vs
255 days in the non-ES group; P=.20).
CONCLUSIONS: ES before SEMS does not affect the incidence of AEs, SEMS patency,
or patient survival times. Our data provide no evidence for a benefit of ES to
patients undergoing SEMS placement for biliary stricture caused by pancreatic
cancer. UMIN clinical trials registry number: 000004044.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25632802  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


517. Clin Respir J. 2015 Jan 26. doi: 10.1111/crj.12264. [Epub ahead of print]

Acute pulmonary embolism: risk assessment, risk stratification and treatment
options.

Piovella F(1), Iosub DI.

Author information: 
(1)Fondazione I.R.C.C.S. Istituto Neurologico Nazionale "Casimiro Mondino",
Pavia, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a potentially life-threatening
cardiovascular emergency with a high mortality rate. Rapid diagnosis and
treatment are important in optimising clinical outcomes in patients with PE, and 
anticoagulants are the mainstay of treatment. Traditionally, anticoagulant
therapy involves parenteral anticoagulants, overlapping with and followed by oral
vitamin K antagonists. Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs), including the Factor
Xa inhibitors rivaroxaban, apixaban and edoxaban, and the direct thrombin
inhibitor dabigatran etexilate, have been developed to address limitations
associated with traditional anticoagulant therapy. Apixaban, dabigatran and
rivaroxaban have recently been approved for the treatment of acute deep vein
thrombosis (DVT) and PE and prevention of recurrent DVT or PE.
OBJECTIVE: To summarise the management of patients with suspected PE in
accordance with recent guidelines, and to discuss the evidence behind the recent 
approvals of the DOACs for the treatment of PE.
DISCUSSION: Diagnosis and treatment of PE is guided by clinical probability
scoring systems and tools for prognostic stratification and early mortality risk 
evaluation. Anticoagulants remain the mainstay of treatment. Successful phase III
trials have demonstrated the efficacy of the DOACs for the treatment of DVT and
PE, with a potentially improved safety profile, leading to their recent approval 
in this indication, and giving the clinician greater choice of anticoagulant
therapies in this setting.
CONCLUSIONS: DOACs offer an alternative and potentially simplified option for
anticoagulation therapy in patients PE compared with traditional anticoagulants, 
and are likely to assist physicians in optimising management of patients with PE 
and improve clinical outcomes.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25619266  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


518. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 26;1:CD010912. [Epub ahead of print]

Workplace interventions for reducing sitting at work.

Shrestha N(1), Ijaz S, Kukkonen-Harjula KT, Kumar S, Nwankwo CP.

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition,
University of Eastern Finland, Yliopistonranta 1, Kuopio, Finland, 70211.

BACKGROUND: The number of people working whilst seated at a desk keeps increasing
worldwide. As sitting increases, occupational physical strain declines at the
same time. This has contributed to increases in cardiovascular disease, obesity
and diabetes. Therefore, reducing and breaking up the time that people spend
sitting while at work is important for health.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effects of workplace interventions to reduce sitting 
at work compared to no intervention or alternative interventions.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
(CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, OSH UPDATE, PsycINFO, Clinical trials.gov and
the World Health Organization (WHO) search trial portal up to 14 February, 2014. 
We also searched reference lists of articles and contacted authors.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCT),
cluster-randomised controlled trials (cRCTs), and quasi-randomised controlled
trials of interventions to reduce sitting at work. For changes of workplace
arrangements, we also included controlled before-and-after studies (CBAs) with a 
concurrent control group. The primary outcome was time spent sitting at work per 
day, either self-reported or objectively measured by means of an accelerometer
coupled with an inclinometer. We considered energy expenditure, duration and
number of sitting episodes lasting 30 minutes or more, work productivity and
adverse events as secondary outcomes.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently screened titles,
abstracts and full-text articles for study eligibility. Two review authors
independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. We contacted authors for 
additional data where required.
MAIN RESULTS: We included eight studies, four RCTs, three CBAs and one cRCT, with
a total of 1125 participants. The studies evaluated physical workplace changes
(three studies), policy changes (one study) and information and counselling (four
studies). No studies investigated the effect of treadmill desks, stepping
devices, periodic breaks or standing or walking meetings. All the studies were at
high risk of bias. The quality of the evidence was very low to low. Half of the
studies were from Australia and the other half from Europe, with none from low-
or middle-income countries. Physical workplace changesWe found very low quality
evidence that sit-stand desks with or without additional counselling reduced
sitting time at work per workday at one week follow-up (MD -143 minutes (95% CI
-184 to -102, one study, 31 participants) and at three months' follow-up (MD -
113 minutes, 95% CI -143 to -84, two studies, 61 participants) compared to no
intervention. Total sitting time during the whole day decreased also with
sit-stand desks compared to no intervention (MD -78 minutes, 95% CI -125 to -30, 
one study, 31 participants) as did the duration of sitting episodes lasting 30
minutes or more (MD -52 minutes, 95% CI -79 to -26, two studies, 74
participants). Sit-stand desks did not have a considerable effect on work
performance and had an inconsistent effect on musculoskeletal symptoms and sick
leave. Policy changesWalking strategies had no considerable effect on sitting at 
work (MD -16 minutes, 95% CI -54 to 23, one study, 179 participants, low quality 
evidence). Information and counsellingGuideline-based counselling by occupational
physicians reduced sitting time at work (MD -28 minutes, 95% CI -54 to -2, one
study, 396 participants, low quality evidence). There was no considerable effect 
on reduction in total sitting time during the whole day.Mindfulness training
induced a non-significant reduction in workplace sitting time (MD -2 minutes, 95%
CI -22 to 18) at six months' follow-up and at 12 months' follow-up (MD -16
minutes, 95% CI -45 to 12, one study, 257 participants, low quality
evidence).There was an inconsistent effect of computer prompting on sitting time 
at work. One study found no considerable effect on sitting at work (MD -18
minutes, 95% CI -53 to 17, 28 participants, low quality evidence) at 10 days'
follow-up, while another study reported a significant reduction in sitting at
work (MD -55 minutes, 95% CI -96 to -14, 34 participants, low quality evidence)
at 13 weeks' follow-up. Computer prompting software also led to a non-significant
increase in energy expenditure at work (MD 278 calories/workday, 95% CI 0 to 556,
one study, 34 participants, low quality evidence) at 13 weeks' follow-up.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: At present there is very low quality evidence that
sit-stand desks can reduce sitting time at work, but the effects of policy
changes and information and counselling are inconsistent. There is a need for
high quality cluster-randomised trials to assess the effects of different types
of interventions on objectively measured sitting time. There are many ongoing
trials that might change these conclusions in the near future.

PMID: 25620219  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


519. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 26;1:CD006745. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD006745.pub3.

Percutaneous ethanol injection or percutaneous acetic acid injection for early
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Weis S(1), Franke A, Berg T, Mössner J, Fleig WE, Schoppmeyer K.

Author information: 
(1)Gastroenterology and Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Neurology 
and Dermatology, University of Leipzig Hospitals and Clinics, AöR, Leipzig,
Germany, 04103.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009;(3):CD006745.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common global
cancer. When HCC is diagnosed early, interventions such as percutaneous ethanol
injection (PEI), percutaneous acetic acid injection (PAI), or radiofrequency
(thermal) ablation (RF(T)A) may have curative potential and represent less
invasive alternatives to surgery.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the beneficial and harmful effects of PEI or PAI in
adults with early HCC defined according to the Milan criteria, that is, one
cancer nodule up to 5 cm in diameter or up to three cancer nodules up to 3 cm in 
diameter compared with no intervention, sham intervention, each other, other
percutaneous interventions, or surgery.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials
Register (July 2014), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
(CENTRAL) (2014, Issue 6), MEDLINE (1946 to July 2014), EMBASE (1976 to July
2014), and Science Citation Index Expanded (1900 to July 2014). We handsearched
meeting abstracts of six oncological and hepatological societies and references
of articles to July 2014. We contacted researchers in the field.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered randomised clinical trials comparing PEI or PAI
versus no intervention, sham intervention, each other, other percutaneous
interventions, or surgery for the treatment of early HCC regardless of blinding, 
publication status, or language. We excluded studies comparing RFA or combination
of different interventions as such interventions have been or will be addressed
in other Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group systematic reviews.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently selected trials
for inclusion, and extracted and analysed data. We calculated the hazard ratios
(HR) for median overall survival and recurrence-free survival using the Cox
regression model with Parmar's method. We reported type and number of adverse
events descriptively. We assessed risk of bias by The Cochrane Collaboration
domains to reduce systematic errors and risk of play of chance by trial
sequential analysis to reduce random errors. We assessed the methodological
quality with GRADE.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified three randomised trials with 261 participants for
inclusion. The risk of bias was low in one and high in two trials.Two of the
randomised trials compared PEI versus PAI; we included 185 participants in the
analysis. The overall survival (HR 1.47; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.68 to
3.19) and recurrence-free survival (HR 1.42; 95% CI 0.68 to 2.94) were not
statistically significantly different between the intervention groups of the two 
trials. Trial sequential analysis for the comparison PEI versus PAI including two
trials revealed that the number of participants that were included in the trials 
were insufficient in order to judge a relative risk reduction of 20%. Data on the
duration of hospital stay were available from one trial for the comparison PEI
versus PAI showing a significantly shorter hospital stay for the participants
treated with PEI (mean 1.7 days; range 2 to 3 days) versus PAI (mean 2.2 days;
range 2 to 5 days). Quality of life was not reported. There were only mild
adverse events in participants treated with either PEI or PAI such as transient
fever, flushing, and local pain.One randomised trial compared PEI versus surgery;
we included 76 participants in the analyses. There was no significant difference 
in the overall survival (HR 1.57; 95% CI 0.53 to 4.61) and recurrence-free
survival (HR 1.35; 95% CI 0.69 to 2.63). No serious adverse events were reported 
in the PEI group while three postoperative deaths occurred in the surgery
group.In addition to the three randomised trials, we identified one
quasi-randomised study comparing PEI versus PAI. Due to methodological flaws of
the study, we extracted only the data on adverse events and presented them in a
narrative way.We found no randomised trials that compared PEI or PAI versus no
intervention, best supportive care, sham intervention, or other percutaneous
local ablative therapies excluding RFTA. We found also no randomised clinical
trials that compared PAI versus other interventional treatments or surgery. We
identified two ongoing randomised clinical trials. One of these two trials
compares PEI versus surgery and the other PEI versus transarterial
chemoembolization. To date, it is unclear whether the trials will be eligible for
inclusion in this meta-analysis as the data are not yet available. This review
will not be updated until new randomised clinical trials are published and can be
used for analysis.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: PEI versus PAI did not differ significantly regarding
benefits and harms in people with early HCC, but the two included trials had only
a limited number of participants and one trial was judged a high risk of bias.
Thus, the current evidence precludes us from making any firm conclusions.There
was also insufficient evidence to determine whether PEI versus surgery (segmental
liver resection) was more effective, because conclusions were based on a single
randomised trial. While some data from this single trial suggested that PEI was
safer, the high risk of bias and the lack of any confirmatory evidence make a
reliable assessment impossible.We found no trials assessing PEI or PAI versus no 
intervention, best supportive care, or sham intervention.There is a need for more
randomised clinical trials assessing interventions for people with early stage
HCC. Such trials should be conducted with low risks of systematic errors and
random errors.

PMID: 25620061  [PubMed - in process]


520. Curr Gene Ther. 2015 Jan 26. [Epub ahead of print]

The Sleeping Beauty Transposon Vector System for Treatment of Rare Genetic
Diseases: an Unrealized Hope?

Boehme P, Doerner J, Solanki M, Zhang W, Ehrhardt A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Virology and Microbiology Center for Biomedical Education and
Research (ZBAF) Department of Human Medicine, Faculty of Health University
Witten/Herdecke 58453 Witten Germany. anja.ehrhardt@uni-wh.de.

Rare genetic diseases account for a considerable amount of fatalities and even
their 'mild' or 'non-lethal' forms can produce drastic and undesirable discomfort
to affected individuals. Various gene therapeutic approaches were tested for
developing novel therapeutic concepts to treat these genetic diseases. Sleeping
Beauty (SB) transposase represents one of these gene therapeutic systems which
can be utilized for stable phenotypic correction. It is a transposable element
which was resurrected and optimized for transposing genetic elements resulting in
somatic integration of the transgene. Because of its versatile activity in many
different organs, SB transposase has been explored for ex-vivo gene delivery and 
in vivo gene delivery including recently launched clinical trials based on
engineered T-cells for tumor therapy and approaches to treat retinal
degenerations. Here we will provide a state-of-the-art overview of preclinical
studies for treatment of rare genetic diseases based on the SB transposase system
for stable correction of the genetic defect. In this review, diseases affecting
the blood system, the connective tissue, the immune system, the metabolism, and
the nervous system and their treatment utilizing the SB transposase system will
be discussed. Moreover, advantages and disadvantages of SB transposase-based gene
therapeutic approaches will be mentioned. Although improvements of the SB
transposase systems regarding genotoxicity and efficient delivery especially for 
applications in large mammals are desirable, the SB transposase system remains to
hold great promise for curing rare genetic disease.

PMID: 25619886  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


521. Curr Gene Ther. 2015 Jan 26. [Epub ahead of print]

T Cell Tuning for Tumour Therapy: Enhancing Effector Function and Memory
Potential of Therapeutic T Cells.

Zech MH, Velica P, Stauss HJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Immunity & Transplantation, Division of Infection & Immunity,
University College London, Royal Free Hospital, Rowland Hill Street, London NW3
2PF, United Kingdom. h.stauss@ucl.ac.uk.

The genetic engineering of T cells can lead to enhanced immune-mediated tumour
destruction and harbors a great potential for the treatment of cancer. Recent
efforts have centered on the design of receptors to re-direct the specificity of 
T cells towards tumour antigens by means of viral gene transfer. This strategy
has shown great success in a number of phase one clinical trials. However, there 
are still challenges to overcome. On the one hand, T cell function can be further
improved to optimize the therapeutic outcome. On the other hand, so called safety
switches are required to deal with possible on and off target toxicities. In this
review, we will give a brief summary of the success and risks of T cell gene
therapy before discussing in detail current strategies to enhance effector
function, persistence and safety of adoptively transferred T cells.

PMID: 25619883  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


522. Curr Mol Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 26. [Epub ahead of print]

Feasibility of Male Hormonal Contraception: Lessons from Clinical Trials and
Animal Experiments.

Oduwole OO, Huhtaniemi IT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, Faculty of
Medicine, Hammersmith Campus, London, W12 0NN, UK.
ilpo.huhtaniemi@imperial.ac.uk.

The general interest in the availability of male contraceptives is on the
increase across different cultures and ethnic backgrounds, due in part to the
fact that men are now willing more than ever, to share the responsibility of
family planning. Despite the expression of interest and tremendous advances in
research however, a modern male hormonal contraceptive method has remained an
elusive goal. Testosterone (T) alone, or in combination with a progestin
currently provides the most promising lead to male hormonal contraception. The
principle relies on enhanced negative feedback of exogenous T to suppress
gonadotropins, thereby blocking the endocrine stimulus for the process of
spermatogenesis. A serious drawback is the inconsistent suppression among men of 
different ethnic backgrounds. This has increased the quest for development to
include other nonhormonal methods. In reality many obstacles still have to be
overcome before an acceptable method is available. In this review, we highlight
recent developments in male hormonal contraceptives methods. Based on our recent 
findings from animal experiment, we shed light on why the method is not achieving
the intended results, and suggest possible ways forward.

PMID: 25620227  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


523. Gastroenterology. 2015 Jan 26. pii: S0016-5085(15)00149-3. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2015.01.034. [Epub ahead of print]

Diagnosis, Management, and Investigational Therapies for Food Allergies.

Kulis M(1), Wright BL(2), Jones SM(3), Burks AW(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Department of Pediatrics, Chapel 
Hill, NC. Electronic address: mike.kulis@unc.edu. (2)University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill, Department of Pediatrics, Chapel Hill, NC; Duke University
Medical Center, Department of Pediatrics, Durham, NC. (3)University of Arkansas
for Medical Sciences, Department of Pediatrics, and Arkansas Children's Hospital,
Little Rock, AR. (4)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Department of
Pediatrics, Chapel Hill, NC.

Food allergies have increased in prevalence over the past 20 years, now becoming 
an important public health concern. Although there are no therapies currently
available for routine clinical care, recent reports indicate that immunotherapies
targeting the mucosal immune system may be effective. Oral immunotherapy is
conducted by administering small, increasing amounts of food allergen; it has
shown promise for desensitizing individuals with peanut, egg, or milk allergies. 
Sublingual immunotherapy also desensitizes allergic patients to foods-2 major
studies have examined the effects of sublingual immunotherapy in subjects with
peanut allergies. We review the complex nature of IgE-mediated food allergies and
the therapies being evaluated in clinical trials. We focus on the diagnosis and
management of food allergies, and investigational therapies.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25633563  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


524. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Jan 26. pii: 1074248414566459. [Epub ahead of
print]

What is Wrong With Cardiac Conditioning? We May be Shooting at Moving Targets.

Iliodromitis EK(1), Cohen MV(2), Dagres N(1), Andreadou I(3), Kremastinos DT(1), 
Downey JM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Second University Department of Cardiology, Medical School, Attikon General
Hospital, University of Athens, Athens, Greece. (2)Department of Physiology,
University of South Alabama College of Medicine, Mobile, AL, USA Department of
Medicine, University of South Alabama College of Medicine, Mobile, AL, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, University of
Athens, Athens, Greece. (4)Second University Department of Cardiology, Medical
School, Attikon General Hospital, University of Athens, Athens, Greece
jdowney@southalabama.edu.

Early recanalization of the occluded culprit coronary artery clearly reduces
infarct size in both animal models and patients and improves clinical outcomes.
Unfortunately, reperfusion can seldom be accomplished before some myocardium
infarcts. As a result there has been an intensive search for interventions that
will make the heart resistant to infarction so that reperfusion could salvage
more myocardium. A number of interventions have been identified in animal models,
foremost being ischemic preconditioning. It protects by activating signaling
pathways that prevent lethal permeability transition pores from forming in the
heart's mitochondria at reperfusion. Such conditioning can be accomplished in a
clinically relevant manner either by staccato reperfusion (ischemic
postconditioning) or by pharmacological activation of the conditioning signaling 
pathways prior to reperfusion. Unfortunately, clinical trials of ischemic
postconditioning and pharmacologic conditioning have been largely disappointing. 
We suggest that this may be caused by inappropriate use as models intended to
mimic the clinical scenario of young healthy animals that receive none of the
many drugs currently given to our patients. Patients may be resistant to some
forms of conditioning because of comorbidities, for example, diabetes, or they
may already be conditioned by adjunct medications, for example, P2Y12 inhibitors 
or opioids. Incremental technological improvements in patient care may render
some approaches to cardioprotection redundant, and thus the clinical target may
be continually changing, while our animal models have not kept pace. In remote
conditioning, a limb is subjected to ischemia/reperfusion prior to or during
coronary reperfusion. Its mechanism is not as well understood as that of ischemic
preconditioning, but the results have been very encouraging. In the present
article, we will review ischemic, remote, and pharmacologic conditioning and
possible confounders that could interfere with their efficacy in clinical trials 
in 2 settings of myocardial ischemia: (1) primary angioplasty in acute myocardial
infarction and (2) elective angioplasty.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25627214  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


525. J Clin Oncol. 2015 Jan 26. pii: JCO.2014.59.4671. [Epub ahead of print]

Inherited NUDT15 Variant Is a Genetic Determinant of Mercaptopurine Intolerance
in Children With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia.

Yang JJ(1), Landier W(2), Yang W(2), Liu C(2), Hageman L(2), Cheng C(2), Pei
D(2), Chen Y(2), Crews KR(2), Kornegay N(2), Wong FL(2), Evans WE(2), Pui CH(2), 
Bhatia S(2), Relling MV(2).

Author information: 
(1)Jun J. Yang, Wenjian Yang, Chengcheng Liu, Cheng Cheng, Deqing Pei, Kristine
R. Crews, Nancy Kornegay, William E. Evans, Ching-Hon Pui, and Mary V. Relling,
St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN; and Wendy Landier, Lindsey
Hageman, Yanjun Chen, F. Lennie Wong, and Smita Bhatia, City of Hope, Duarte, CA.
jun.yang@stjude.org. (2)Jun J. Yang, Wenjian Yang, Chengcheng Liu, Cheng Cheng,
Deqing Pei, Kristine R. Crews, Nancy Kornegay, William E. Evans, Ching-Hon Pui,
and Mary V. Relling, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN; and Wendy
Landier, Lindsey Hageman, Yanjun Chen, F. Lennie Wong, and Smita Bhatia, City of 
Hope, Duarte, CA.

PURPOSE: Mercaptopurine (MP) is the mainstay of curative therapy for acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS)
to identify comprehensively the genetic basis of MP intolerance in children with 
ALL.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The discovery GWAS and replication cohorts included 657 and
371 children from two prospective clinical trials. MP dose intensity was a marker
for drug tolerance and toxicities and was defined as prescribed dose divided by
the planned protocol dose during maintenance therapy; its association with
genotype was evaluated using a linear mixed-effects model.
RESULTS: MP dose intensity varied by race and ethnicity and was negatively
correlated with East Asian genetic ancestry (P < .001). The GWAS revealed two
genome-wide significant loci associated with dose intensity: rs1142345 in TPMT
(Tyr240Cys, present in *3A and *3C variants; P = 8.6 × 10(-9)) and rs116855232 in
NUDT15 (P = 8.8 × 10(-9)), with independent replication. Patients with TT
genotype at rs116855232 were exquisitely sensitive to MP, with an average dose
intensity of 8.3%, compared with those with TC and CC genotypes, who tolerated
63% and 83.5% of the planned dose, respectively. The NUDT15 variant was most
common in East Asians and Hispanics, rare in Europeans, and monomorphic in
Africans, contributing to ancestry-related differences in MP tolerance. Of
children homozygous for either TPMT or NUDT15 variants or heterozygous for both, 
100% required ≥ 50% MP dose reduction, compared with only 7.7% of others.
CONCLUSION: We describe a germline variant in NUDT15 strongly associated with MP 
intolerance in childhood ALL, which may have implications for treatment
individualization in this disease.

© 2015 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

PMID: 25624441  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


526. J Clin Oncol. 2015 Jan 26. pii: JCO.2014.57.9334. [Epub ahead of print]

Symptomatic Toxicities Experienced During Anticancer Treatment: Agreement Between
Patient and Physician Reporting in Three Randomized Trials.

Di Maio M(1), Gallo C(1), Leighl NB(1), Piccirillo MC(1), Daniele G(1), Nuzzo
F(1), Gridelli C(1), Gebbia V(1), Ciardiello F(1), De Placido S(1), Ceribelli
A(1), Favaretto AG(1), de Matteis A(1), Feld R(1), Butts C(1), Bryce J(1),
Signoriello S(1), Morabito A(1), Rocco G(1), Perrone F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Massimo Di Maio, Maria Carmela Piccirillo, Gennaro Daniele, Francesco Nuzzo,
Andrea de Matteis, Jane Bryce, Alessandro Morabito, Gaetano Rocco, and Francesco 
Perrone, Istituto Nazionale Tumori-Fondazione "G. Pascale" Istituto di Ricovero e
Cura a Carattere Scientifico; Ciro Gallo, Fortunato Ciardiello, and Simona
Signoriello, Second University; Sabino De Placido, Federico II University,
Napoli; Cesare Gridelli, S.G. Moscati Hospital, Avellino; Vittorio Gebbia,
Istituto La Maddalena, Palermo; Anna Ceribelli, Regina Elena National Cancer
Institute, Roma; Adolfo G. Favaretto, Istituto Oncologico Veneto, Padova, Italy; 
Natasha B. Leighl and Ronald Feld, Princess Margaret Hospital/University Health
Network, Toronto; and Charles Butts, Cross Cancer Institute, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada. (2)Massimo Di Maio, Maria Carmela Piccirillo, Gennaro Daniele, Francesco 
Nuzzo, Andrea de Matteis, Jane Bryce, Alessandro Morabito, Gaetano Rocco, and
Francesco Perrone, Istituto Nazionale Tumori-Fondazione "G. Pascale" Istituto di 
Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico; Ciro Gallo, Fortunato Ciardiello, and
Simona Signoriello, Second University; Sabino De Placido, Federico II University,
Napoli; Cesare Gridelli, S.G. Moscati Hospital, Avellino; Vittorio Gebbia,
Istituto La Maddalena, Palermo; Anna Ceribelli, Regina Elena National Cancer
Institute, Roma; Adolfo G. Favaretto, Istituto Oncologico Veneto, Padova, Italy; 
Natasha B. Leighl and Ronald Feld, Princess Margaret Hospital/University Health
Network, Toronto; and Charles Butts, Cross Cancer Institute, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada. f.perrone@istitutotumori.na.it.

PURPOSE: Information about symptomatic toxicities of anticancer treatments is not
based on direct report by patients, but rather on reports by clinicians in
trials. Given the potential for under-reporting, our aim was to compare reporting
by patients and physicians of six toxicities (anorexia, nausea, vomiting,
constipation, diarrhea, and hair loss) within three randomized trials.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In one trial, elderly patients with breast cancer received 
adjuvant chemotherapy; in two trials, patients with advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer received first-line treatment. Toxicity was prospectively collected by
investigators (graded by National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria
[version 2.0] or Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [version 3]). At 
the end of each cycle, patients completed the European Organisation for Research 
and Treatment of Cancer quality-of-life questionnaires, including
toxicity-related symptom items. Possible answers were "not at all," "a little,"
"quite a bit," and "very much." Analysis was limited to the first three cycles.
For each toxicity, agreement between patients and physicians and under-reporting 
by physicians (ie, toxicity reported by patients but not reported by physicians) 
were calculated.
RESULTS: Overall, 1,090 patients (2,482 cycles) were included. Agreement between 
patients and physicians was low for all toxicities. Toxicity rates reported by
physicians were always lower than those reported by patients. For patients who
reported toxicity (any severity), under-reporting by physicians ranged from 40.7%
to 74.4%. Examining only patients who reported "very much" toxicity,
under-reporting by physicians ranged from 13.0% to 50.0%.
CONCLUSION: Subjective toxicities are at high risk of under-reporting by
physicians, even when prospectively collected within randomized trials. This
strongly supports the incorporation of patient-reported outcomes into toxicity
reporting in clinical trials.

© 2015 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

PMID: 25624439  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


527. J Diabetes. 2015 Jan 26. doi: 10.1111/1753-0407.12272. [Epub ahead of print]

Diabetic cystopathy: A review.

Yuan Z(1), Tang Z, He C, Tang W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical
University, Chongqing, China.

The aim of this review is to review and discuss epidemiological, clinical and
experimental studies on diabetic cystopathy, a common chronic complication of
diabetes mellitus with a variety of lower urinary tract symptoms, providing
directions for future research. A search of published epidemiologic, clinical or 
preclinical trial literature was performed using the key words "diabetes",
"diabetic cystopathy", "diabetic bladder dysfunction", "diabetic lower urinary
tract dysfunction", "diabetic detrusor instability", etc. The classic symptoms of
diabetic cystopathy are decreased bladder sensation, increased bladder capacity, 
and impaired bladder emptying with resultant increased post-void residual volume.
However, recent clinical evidence indicates a presence of storage symptoms such
as overactive bladder symptoms. The pathophysiology of diabetic cystopathy is
multifactorial, including disturbances of the detrusor, neuron, urothelium, and
urethra. Hyperglycimia, oxidative stress and polyuria play important roles in
inducing voiding dysfunction in diabetic individuals. Treatment choice depends on
clinical symptoms and urodynamic abnormalities. Urodynamic evaluation is the
cornerstone of diagnosis and determines the management strategies. Diabetes
mellitus could cause a variety of lower urinary tract symptoms, leading to
diabetic cystopathy with broadly varied estimates of the prevalence rates. The
exact prevalence and pathogenesis of diabetic cystopathy remains to be further
investigated and studied in multicenter, large scaled, or randomized basic and
clinical trials, and a validated and standardized workup needs to be made,
improving diabetic cystopathy management in clinical practice. Further studies
involving only female diabetic are recommended.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25619174  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


528. J Fam Psychol. 2015 Jan 26. [Epub ahead of print]

A Randomized Clinical Trial of Family Therapy in Juvenile Drug Court.

Dakof GA, Henderson CE, Rowe CL, Boustani M, Greenbaum PE, Wang W, Hawes S,
Linares C, Liddle HA.

The objective of this article is to examine the effectiveness of 2 theoretically 
different treatments delivered in juvenile drug court-family therapy represented 
by multidimensional family therapy (MDFT) and group-based treatment represented
by adolescent group therapy (AGT)-on offending and substance use. Intent-to-treat
sample included 112 youth enrolled in juvenile drug court (primarily male [88%], 
and Hispanic [59%] or African American [35%]), average age 16.1 years, randomly
assigned to either family therapy (n = 55) or group therapy (n = 57).
Participants were assessed at baseline and 6, 12, 18 and 24 months following
baseline. During the drug court phase, youth in both treatments showed
significant reduction in delinquency (average d = .51), externalizing symptoms
(average d = 2.32), rearrests (average d = 1.22), and substance use (average d = 
4.42). During the 24-month follow-up, family therapy evidenced greater
maintenance of treatment gains than group-based treatment for externalizing
symptoms (d = 0.39), commission of serious crimes (d = .38), and felony arrests
(d = .96). There was no significant difference between the treatments with
respect to substance use or misdemeanor arrests. The results suggest that family 
therapy enhances juvenile drug court outcomes beyond what can be achieved with a 
nonfamily based treatment, especially with respect to what is arguably the
primary objective of juvenile drug courts: reducing criminal behavior and
rearrests. More research is needed on the effectiveness of juvenile drug courts
generally and on whether treatment type and family involvement influence
outcomes. Trial Registry Name: Clinical Trials.gov, Identified NCT01668303.
(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved).

PMID: 25621927  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


529. J Parkinsons Dis. 2015 Jan 26. [Epub ahead of print]

Usefulness of Genetic Testing in PD and PD Trials: A Balanced Review.

Gasser T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain 
Research, University of Tübingen, and German Center for Neurodegenerative
Diseases (DZNE), Tübingen, Germany.

An increasing proportion of the individual and population risk to develop
Parkinson's disease (PD) can be explained by genetic variants of different effect
strength, forming a continuum from rare high penetrance gain or loss of function 
mutations to relatively common genetic risk variants that only mildly modify
disease risk. In the coming years, further advances in molecular genetic
technologies, in particular the increasing use of next generation sequencing, is 
likely to generate a wealth of new knowledge about the genetic basis of PD.
Although specific treatments for PD based on the underlying genetic etiology will
probably not be available in the near future, genetic testing is therefore likely
to play an increasing role, both in the counselling of individual patients and
their families with respect to the expected disease course and recurrence risks, 
and in the stratification of patient groups in clinical trials. Thus, the
usefulness of genetic testing strongly depends on question asked and needs to be 
considered within each particular setting.

PMID: 25624421  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


530. Mult Scler. 2015 Jan 26. pii: 1352458514565959. [Epub ahead of print]

Home-based training to improve manual dexterity in patients with multiple
sclerosis: A randomized controlled trial.

Kamm CP(1), Mattle HP(2), Müri RM(3), Heldner MR(2), Blatter V(2), Bartlome S(3),
Lüthy J(3), Imboden D(3), Pedrazzini G(2), Bohlhalter S(4), Hilfiker R(5),
Vanbellingen T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, and University
of Bern, Switzerland christian.kamm@insel.ch. (2)Department of Neurology,
Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, and University of Bern, Switzerland.
(3)Division of Cognitive and Restorative Neurology, Department of Neurology,
Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, and University of Bern, Switzerland.
(4)Neurology and Neurorehabilitation Center, Luzerner Kantonsspital, Switzerland.
(5)HES-SO Valais-Wallis, School of Health Sciences, University of Applied
Sciences and Arts Western Switzerland Valais, Sion, Switzerland. (6)Department of
Neurology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, and University of Bern,
Switzerland/Neurology and Neurorehabilitation Center, Luzerner Kantonsspital,
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Impaired manual dexterity is frequent and disabling in patients with 
multiple sclerosis (MS), affecting activities of daily living (ADL) and quality
of life.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of a standardized, home-based
training program to improve manual dexterity and dexterity-related ADL in MS
patients.
METHODS: This was a randomized, rater-blinded controlled trial. Thirty-nine MS
patients acknowledging impaired manual dexterity and having a pathological Coin
Rotation Task (CRT), Nine Hole Peg Test (9HPT) or both were randomized 1:1 into
two standardized training programs, the dexterity training program and the
theraband training program. Patients trained five days per week in both programs 
over a period of 4 weeks. Primary outcome measures performed at baseline and
after 4 weeks were the CRT, 9HPT and a dexterous-related ADL questionnaire.
Secondary outcome measures were the Chedoke Arm and Hand Activity Inventory
(CAHAI-8) and the JAMAR test.
RESULTS: The dexterity training program resulted in significant improvements in
almost all outcome measures at study end compared with baseline. The theraband
training program resulted in mostly non-significant improvements.
CONCLUSION: The home-based dexterity training program significantly improved
manual dexterity and dexterity-related ADL in moderately disabled MS patients.
Trial Registration NCT01507636.

© The Author(s), 2015.

PMID: 25623246  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


531. Mult Scler. 2015 Jan 26. pii: 1352458514566419. [Epub ahead of print]

Promoting remyelination in multiple sclerosis: Current drugs and future
prospects.

Kremer D(1), Küry P(2), Dutta R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty, University of Düsseldorf,
Germany/Department of Neurosciences, Lerner Research Institute, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty, University of Düsseldorf, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurosciences, Lerner Research Institute, USA duttar@ccf.org.

Myelin destruction due to inflammatory oligodendrocyte cell damage or death in
conjunction with axonal degeneration are among the major histopathological
hallmarks of multiple sclerosis (MS). The majority of available immunomodulatory 
medications for MS are approved for relapsing-remitting (RR) MS, for which they
reduce relapse rate, MRI measures of inflammation, and the accumulation of
disability. These medications are, however, of little benefit during progressive 
MS where axonal degeneration following demyelination outweighs inflammation. This
has sparked great interest in the development of new remyelination therapies
aimed at reversing the neurodegenerative damage observed in this disease.
Remyelination as a result of oligodendrocyte production from oligodendrocyte
precursor cells (OPCs) is considered a promising potential target for the
treatment of all stages of MS. In this review we present an overview of a)
approved medications (some of them FDA-and EMA-approved for other diseases) with 
a proposed role in regeneration, b) regenerative treatments under investigation
in clinical trials, and c) promising future therapeutic approaches aiming
specifically at facilitating endogenous repair.

© The Author(s), 2015.

PMID: 25623245  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


532. Nutr J. 2015 Jan 26;14(1):13. [Epub ahead of print]

Lower hypoglycemic but higher antiatherogenic effects of bitter melon than
glibenclamide in type 2 diabetic patients.

Rahman IU, Khan RU, Rahman KU, Bashir M.

OBJECTIVE: Since antiquity bitter melon has been in use for treating diabetes but
clinical trials show conflicting results about its usefulness. The present study 
aims to asses and compare the hypoglycemic and antiatherogenic effects as well as
the safety of two different doses of bitter melon with glibenclamide.
METHODS: A total of 95 participants were randomized into 3 groups; group I and
group II received bitter melon (2 g/day and 4 g/day respectively) and group III
received glibenclamide (5 mg/day) for 10 weeks. Glycemic control and
antiatherogenic effects were determined by assessing glycohemoglobin (HbA1-c),
fasting plasma glucose (FPG), 2 hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), plasma
sialic acid (PSA), systolic blood pressure (SBP), blood lipids and atherogenic
index at different time periods.
RESULTS: Compared to baseline, mean reduction in HbA1-c at the endpoint was
significant among patients of group I, group II and group III (p <= 0.05, p <=
0.02 and p < 0.005 respectively) and same was the case for FPG (p <= 0.05, p <
0.04, p < 0.003 respectively), but the improvement in 2 hour OGTT was significant
only in group III (p < 0.03). The decrease in PSA was observed only among group I
and group II with the later showing significant reduction from baseline (p <
0.01). In group III, the level slightly increased. Parameters including blood
lipids, atherogenic index, body weight and SBP improved among patients of group I
and group II but deteriorated among group III patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study concludes that bitter melon has a weaker hypoglycemic
effect but ameliorates the diabetes associated cardiovascular (CV) risk factors
more effectively than glibenclamide.Trial registration: The trial was registered 
with Naseer Teaching Hospital Clinical Trials Registry number GU2014492233.

PMID: 25623883  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


533. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2015 Jan 26. [Epub ahead of print]

Lung Cancer Mutations and use of Targeted Agents in Hispanics.

Cress WD, Chiappori A, Santiago P, Muñoz-Antonia T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Moffitt Cancer Center 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612.
teresita.antonia@moffitt.org.

Hispanic/Latinos (H/L) are expected to grow to over 24% of the USA population by 
2050 and lung cancer is the number one cause of cancer death among H/L men. Due
to the information that is becoming available via genetic testing, lung cancer
molecular profiling is allowing for increasing application of personalized lung
cancer therapies. However, to benefit the most people, development of these
therapies and genetic tests must include research on as many racial and ethnic
groups as possible. The purpose of this review is to bring attention to the fact 
that the mutations driving lung cancer in H/Ls differ in frequency and nature
relative to the non-Hispanic White (WNH) majority that dominate current databases
and participate in clinical trials that test new therapies. Clinical trials using
new agents targeting genetic alterations (driver mutations) in lung cancer have
demonstrated significant improvements in patient outcomes (for example,
gefitinib, erlotinib or crizotinib for lung adenocarcinomas harboring EGFR
mutations or EML4-ALK fusions, respectively). The nature and frequencies of some 
lung cancer driver mutations have been shown to be considerably different among
racial and ethnic groups. This is particularly true for H/Ls. For example,
several reports suggest a dramatic shift in the mutation pattern from
predominantly KRAS in a WNH population to predominantly EGFR in multiple H/L
populations. However, these studies are limited, and the effects of racial and
ethnic differences on the incidence of mutations in lung cancer remain
incompletely understood. This review serves as a call to address this problem.

PMID: 25626064  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


534. Stat Med. 2015 Jan 26. doi: 10.1002/sim.6426. [Epub ahead of print]

Bayesian methods for setting sample sizes and choosing allocation ratios in phase
II clinical trials with time-to-event endpoints.

Cotterill A(1), Whitehead J.

Author information: 
(1)Medical and Pharmaceutical Statistics Research Unit, Department of Mathematics
and Statistics, Lancaster University, Lancaster, U.K.

Conventional phase II trials using binary endpoints as early indicators of a
time-to-event outcome are not always feasible. Uveal melanoma has no reliable
intermediate marker of efficacy. In pancreatic cancer and viral clearance, the
time to the event of interest is short, making an early indicator unnecessary. In
the latter application, Weibull models have been used to analyse corresponding
time-to-event data. Bayesian sample size calculations are presented for
single-arm and randomised phase II trials assuming proportional hazards models
for time-to-event endpoints. Special consideration is given to the case where
survival times follow the Weibull distribution. The proposed methods are
demonstrated through an illustrative trial based on uveal melanoma patient data. 
A procedure for prior specification based on knowledge or predictions of survival
patterns is described. This enables investigation into the choice of allocation
ratio in the randomised setting to assess whether a control arm is indeed
required. The Bayesian framework enables sample sizes consistent with those used 
in practice to be obtained. When a confirmatory phase III trial will follow if
suitable evidence of efficacy is identified, Bayesian approaches are less
controversial than for definitive trials. In the randomised setting, a compromise
for obtaining feasible sample sizes is a loss in certainty in the specified
hypotheses: the Bayesian counterpart of power. However, this approach may still
be preferable to running a single-arm trial where no data is collected on the
control treatment. This dilemma is present in most phase II trials, where
resources are not sufficient to conduct a definitive trial. Copyright © 2015 John
Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25620687  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


535. Stat Med. 2015 Jan 26. doi: 10.1002/sim.6425. [Epub ahead of print]

Optimizing the order of hypotheses in serial testing of multiple endpoints in
clinical trials.

Zhang Z(1), Wang C, Troendle JF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Office of Surveillance and Biometrics, Center for
Devices and Radiological Health, US Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring, 
MD, U.S.A.

Clinical trials usually collect information on a large number of variables or
endpoints, including one or more primary endpoints as well as a number of
secondary endpoints representing different aspects of treatment effectiveness and
safety. In this article, we focus on serial testing procedures that test multiple
endpoints in a pre-specified order, and consider how to optimize the order of
endpoints subject to any clinical constraints, with respect to the expected
number of successes (i.e., endpoints that reach statistical significance) or the 
expected gain (if endpoints are associated with numerical utilities). We consider
some common approaches to this problem and propose two new approaches: a greedy
algorithm based on conditional power and a simulated annealing algorithm that
attempts to improve a given sequence in a random and iterative fashion.
Simulation results indicate that the proposed algorithms are useful for finding a
high-performing sequence, and that optimized fixed sequence procedures can be
competitive against traditional multiple testing procedures such as Holm's. The
methods and findings are illustrated with two examples concerning migraine and
asthma. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25620627  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


536. Subst Abuse Treat Prev Policy. 2015 Jan 26;10(1):3. doi: 10.1186/1747-597X-10-3.

The SALOME study: recruitment experiences in a clinical trial offering injectable
diacetylmorphine and hydromorphone for opioid dependency.

Oviedo-Joekes E(1), Marchand K, Lock K, MacDonald S, Guh D, Schechter MT.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Health Evaluation & Outcome Sciences, Providence Health Care, St,
Paul's Hospital, 575- 1081 Burrard St,, Vancouver, BC V6Z 1Y6, Canada.
eugenia@cheos.ubc.ca.

BACKGROUND: The Study to Assess Long-term Opioid Medication Effectiveness
(SALOME) is a two-stage phase III, single site (Vancouver, Canada), randomized,
double blind controlled trial designed to test if hydromorphone is as effective
as diacetylmorphine for the treatment of long-term illicit opioid injection.
Recruiting participants for clinical trials continues to be a challenge in
medical and addiction research, with many studies not being able to reach the
planned sample size in a timely manner. The aim of this study is to describe the 
recruitment strategies in SALOME, which offered appealing treatments but had
limited clinic capacity and no guaranteed post-trial continuation of the
treatments.
METHODS: SALOME included chronic opioid-dependent, current illicit injection
opioid users who had at least one previous episode of opioid maintenance
treatment. Regulatory approvals were received in June 2011 and recruitment
strategies were implemented over the next 5 months. Recruitment strategies
included ongoing open communication with the community, a consistent and
accessible team and participant-centered screening. All applicants completed a
pre-screening checklist to assess prerequisites. Applicants meeting these
prerequisites were later contacted to commence the screening process.
RESULTS: A total of 598 applications were received over the two-year recruitment 
period; 130 were received on the first day of recruitment. Of these applicants,
485 met prerequisites; however, many could not be found or were not reached
before recruitment ended. For the 253 candidates who initiated the screening
process, the average time lapse between application and screening date was 8.3
months (standard deviation [SD] = 4.44) and for the 202 randomized to the study, 
the average processing time from initial screen to randomization was 25.9 days
(SD = 37.48; Median = 15.0).
CONCLUSIONS: As in prior trials offering injectable diacetylmorphine within a
supervised model, recruiting participants for this study took longer than
planned. The recruitment challenges overcome in SALOME were due to the high
number of applicants compared with the limited number that could be randomized
and treated. Our study emphasizes the value of integrating these strategies into 
clinical addiction research to overcome study-specific barriers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01447212.

PMID: 25619263  [PubMed - in process]


537. Trials. 2015 Jan 26;16(1):16. [Epub ahead of print]

The natural history of conducting and reporting clinical trials: interviews with 
trialists.

Smyth R, Jacoby A, Altman DG, Gamble C, Williamson PR.

BackgroundTo investigate the nature of the research process as a whole, factors
that might influence the way in which research is carried out, and how
researchers ultimately report their findings.MethodsSemi-structured qualitative
telephone interviews with authors of trials, identified from two sources: trials 
published since 2002 included in Cochrane systematic reviews selected for the
ORBIT project; and trial reports randomly sampled from 14,758 indexed on PubMed
over the 12-month period from August 2007 to July 2008.ResultsA total of 268
trials were identified for inclusion, 183 published since 2002 and included in
the Cochrane systematic reviews selected for the ORBIT project and 85 randomly
selected published trials indexed on PubMed. The response rate from researchers
in the former group was 21% (38/183) and in the latter group was 25% (21/85).
Overall, 59 trialists were interviewed from the two different sources. A number
of major but related themes emerged regarding the conduct and reporting of
trials: establishment of the research question; identification of outcome
variables; use of and adherence to the study protocol; conduct of the research;
reporting and publishing of findings. Our results reveal that, although a
substantial proportion of trialists identify outcome variables based on their
clinical experience and knowing experts in the field, there can be insufficient
reference to previous research in the planning of a new trial. We have revealed
problems with trial recruitment: not reaching the target sample size,
over-estimation of recruitment potential and recruiting clinicians not being in
equipoise. We found a wide variation in the completeness of protocols, in terms
of detailing study rationale, outlining the proposed methods, trial organisation 
and ethical considerations.ConclusionOur results confirm that the conduct and
reporting of some trials can be inadequate. Interviews with researchers
identified aspects of clinical research that can be especially challenging:
establishing appropriate and relevant outcome variables to measure, use of and
adherence to the study protocol, recruiting of study participants and reporting
and publishing the study findings. Our trialists considered the prestige and
impact factors of academic journals to be the most important criteria for
selecting those to which they would submit manuscripts.

PMCID: PMC4322554
PMID: 25619208  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


538. Ugeskr Laeger. 2015 Jan 26;177(2A). pii: V04130257.

[Ipilimumab treatment of metastatic melanoma.]

[Article in Danish]

Ghasemi H(1), Schmidt H, Stolle LB.

Author information: 
(1)Ortopædkirurgisk Afdeling E, Aarhus Universitetshospital, Nørrebrogade 44,
8000 Aarhus C. habib@dadlnet.dk.

Until recently metastatic melanoma was a disease with limited treatment options
and a poor prognosis. However, new promising products have been developed.
Ipilimumab, a full human anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 antibody, has
shown improved survival in several clinical trials and is now a part of the
standard treatment options for this disease in Denmark. In this case report we
present a 78-year-old man with metastatic melanoma who had complete remission
after treatment with ipilimumab.

PMID: 25612993  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


539. World J Cardiol. 2015 Jan 26;7(1):1-5. doi: 10.4330/wjc.v7.i1.1.

Opportunities and challenges of clinical trials in cardiology using composite
primary endpoints.

Rauch G(1), Rauch B(1), Schüler S(1), Kieser M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Geraldine Rauch, Svenja Schüler, Meinhard Kieser, Institute of Medical
Biometry and Informatics, University of Heidelberg, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

In clinical trials, the primary efficacy endpoint often corresponds to a
so-called "composite endpoint". Composite endpoints combine several events of
interest within a single outcome variable. Thereby it is intended to enlarge the 
expected effect size and thereby increase the power of the study. However,
composite endpoints also come along with serious challenges and problems. On the 
one hand, composite endpoints may lead to difficulties during the planning phase 
of a trial with respect to the sample size calculation, as the expected clinical 
effect of an intervention on the composite endpoint depends on the effects on its
single components and their correlations. This may lead to wrong assumptions on
the sample size needed. Too optimistic assumptions on the expected effect may
lead to an underpowered of the trial, whereas a too conservatively estimated
effect results in an unnecessarily high sample size. On the other hand, the
interpretation of composite endpoints may be difficult, as the observed effect of
the composite does not necessarily reflect the effects of the single components. 
Therefore the demonstration of the clinical efficacy of a new intervention by
exclusively evaluating the composite endpoint may be misleading. The present
paper summarizes results and recommendations of the latest research addressing
the above mentioned problems in the planning, analysis and interpretation of
clinical trials with composite endpoints, thereby providing a practical guidance 
for users.

PMCID: PMC4306200
PMID: 25632312  [PubMed]


540. World J Stem Cells. 2015 Jan 26;7(1):186-94. doi: 10.4252/wjsc.v7.i1.186.

Stem cells for spine surgery.

Schroeder J(1), Kueper J(1), Leon K(1), Liebergall M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Joshua Schroeder, Kaplan Leon, Meir Liebergall, Department of Orthopedic
Surgery, Spine Surgery, Hadassah Medical Center, Kiryat Hadassah, Jerusalem
91120, Israel.

In the past few years, stem cells have become the focus of research by
regenerative medicine professionals and tissue engineers. Embryonic stem cells,
although capable of differentiating into cell lineages of all three germ layers, 
are limited in their utilization due to ethical issues. In contrast, the
autologous harvest and subsequent transplantation of adult stem cells from bone
marrow, adipose tissue or blood have been experimentally utilized in the
treatment of a wide variety of diseases ranging from myocardial infarction to
Alzheimer's disease. The physiologic consequences of stem cell transplantation
and its impact on functional recovery have been studied in countless animal
models and select clinical trials. Unfortunately, the bench to bedside
translation of this research has been slow. Nonetheless, stem cell therapy has
received the attention of spinal surgeons due to its potential benefits in the
treatment of neural damage, muscle trauma, disk degeneration and its potential
contribution to bone fusion.

PMCID: PMC4300930
PMID: 25621119  [PubMed]


541. World J Stem Cells. 2015 Jan 26;7(1):160-4. doi: 10.4252/wjsc.v7.i1.160.

Stem cell therapy for retinal diseases.

Garcia JM(1), Mendonça L(1), Brant R(1), Abud M(1), Regatieri C(1), Diniz B(1).

Author information: 
(1)José Mauricio Garcia, Luisa Mendonça, Murilo Abud, Bruno Diniz, Department of 
Ophthalmology, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia 74001-970, Brazil.

In this review, we discuss about current knowledge about stem cell (SC) therapy
in the treatment of retinal degeneration. Both human embryonic stem cell and
induced pluripotent stem cell has been growth in culture for a long time, and
started to be explored in the treatment of blinding conditions. The Food and Drug
Administration, recently, has granted clinical trials using SC retinal therapy to
treat complex disorders, as Stargardt's dystrophy, and patients with geographic
atrophy, providing good outcomes. This study's intent is to overview the critical
regeneration of the subretinal anatomy through retinal pigment epithelium
transplantation, with the goal of reestablish important pathways from the retina 
to the occipital cortex of the brain, as well as the differentiation from
pluripotent quiescent SC to adult retina, and its relationship with a primary
retinal injury, different techniques of transplantation, management of immune
rejection and tumorigenicity, its potential application in improving patients'
vision, and, finally, approaching future directions and challenges for the
treatment of several conditions.

PMCID: PMC4300926
PMID: 25621115  [PubMed]


542. World J Stem Cells. 2015 Jan 26;7(1):96-105. doi: 10.4252/wjsc.v7.i1.96.

Stem cells for the treatment of musculoskeletal pain.

Labusca L(1), Zugun-Eloae F(1), Mashayekhi K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Luminita Labusca, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University Hospital Saint 
Spiridon, 700111 Iasi, Romania.

Musculoskeletal-related pain is one of the most disabling health conditions
affecting more than one third of the adult population worldwide. Pain from
various mechanisms and origins is currently underdiagnosed and undertreated. The 
complexity of molecular mechanisms correlating pain and the progression of
musculoskeletal diseases is not yet fully understood. Molecular biomarkers for
objective evaluation and treatment follow-up are needed as a step towards
targeted treatment of pain as a symptom or as a disease. Stem cell therapy is
already under investigation for the treatment of different types of
musculoskeletal-related pain. Mesenchymal stem cell-based therapies are already
being tested in various clinical trials that use musculoskeletal system-related
pain as the primary or secondary endpoint. Genetically engineered stem cells, as 
well as induced pluripotent stem cells, offer promising novel perspectives for
pain treatment. It is possible that a more focused approach and reassessment of
therapeutic goals will contribute to the overall efficacy, as well as to the
clinical acceptance of regenerative medicine therapies. This article briefly
describes the principal types of musculoskeletal-related pain and reviews the
stem cell-based therapies that have been specifically designed for its treatment.

PMCID: PMC4300940
PMID: 25621109  [PubMed]


543. Amino Acids. 2015 Jan 25. [Epub ahead of print]

A (14)C-leucine absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) study
in adult Sprague-Dawley rat reveals β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate as a metabolite.

Lee AJ(1), Beno DW, Zhang X, Shapiro R, Mason M, Mason-Bright T, Surber B, Edens 
NK.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, AbbVie Inc., 1 North Waukegan Road,
North Chicago, IL, 60064, USA.

Leucine is an essential branched-chain amino acid that acts as a substrate for
protein synthesis and as a signaling molecule. Leucine not incorporated into
muscle protein is ultimately oxidized through intermediates such as
β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB) which itself is reported to enhance muscle mass 
and function in rats and humans. HMB has been reported in the plasma following
oral leucine administration in sheep and pigs but not in Sprague-Dawley rats, the
standard preclinical model. Therefore, we conducted radiolabeled absorption,
distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) studies in rats using a low
(3 mg/kg) or high dose (1,000 mg/kg) of (14)C-leucine. Blood, tissue, and urine
samples were analyzed for (14)C-leucine and its metabolites by HPLC-MS. Our
results show for the first time that (14)C-HMB appears in plasma and urine of
rats following an oral dose of (14)C-leucine. (14)C-leucine appears in plasma as 
(14)C-α-ketoisocaproic acid (KIC) with a slower time course than (14)C-HMB, a
putative product of KIC. Further, two novel metabolites of leucine were detected 
in urine, N-acetyl leucine and glycyl leucine. Mass balance studies demonstrate
that excretory routes accounted for no more than 0.9 % of the radiolabel and
approximately 61 % of the dose was recovered in the carcass. Approximately 65 %
of the dose was recovered in total, suggesting that approximately one-third of
the leucine dose is oxidized to CO2. In conclusion, this study demonstrates
endogenous production of HMB from leucine in adult rats, a standard preclinical
model used to guide design of clinical trials in nutrition.

PMID: 25618754  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


544. Cancer Med. 2015 Jan 25. doi: 10.1002/cam4.371. [Epub ahead of print]

CTLA-4 blockade with ipilimumab: biology, safety, efficacy, and future
considerations.

Camacho LH(1).

Author information: 
(1)St. Luke's Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.

Melanoma remains a critical public health problem worldwide. Patients with stage 
IV disease have very poor prognosis and their 1-year survival rate is only 25%.
Until recently, systemic treatments with a positive impact on overall survival
(OS) had remained elusive. In recent years, the United States Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) - approved several novel agents targeting the
RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway (vemurafenib, dabrafenib, and trametinib) - critical in
cell division and proliferation of melanoma, and an immune checkpoint inhibitor
(ipilimumab) directed against the cytotoxic T lymphocyte Antigen - (CTLA-4).
Moreover, recent reports of clinical trials studying other immune checkpoint
modulating agents will most likely result in their FDA approval within the next
months. This review focuses on ipilimumab, its safety and efficacy, and future
considerations. Ipilimumab has demonstrated a positive OS impact after a
several-year follow-up. It is also recognized that due to its mechanism of
action, the response patterns to ipilimumab can differ from those observed in
patients following treatment with conventional cytotoxic agents and even the most
recently approved BRAF inhibitors. Most patients (84.8%) experience drug-related 
adverse events (AEs) of any grade; most of these are mild to moderate and immune 
mediated. However, a minority of patients may also experience severe and
life-threatening AEs. In clinical studies, AEs were managed according to
guidelines that emphasized close clinical monitoring and early use of
corticosteroids when appropriate. Preliminary results have taught us the
potential greater toxicity when in combination with vemurafenib, and the greater 
antitumor efficacy when combined with nivolumab, a monoclonal antibody directed
against programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1), another immune checkpoint inhibitor. 
Future challenges include the optimization of dosing and toxicities when used as 
a single agent, and studying the safety and efficacy of combinations with
targeted small molecules and other monoclonal antibodies to treat patients with
melanoma and other malignancies.

© 2014 The Author. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25619164  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


545. Chirurg. 2015 Jan 25. [Epub ahead of print]

[Interventional procedures in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease.]

[Article in German]

Koch OO(1), Köhler G, Wundsam H, Weitzendorfer M, Spaun GO, Emmanuel K.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Allgemein- und Viszeralchirurgie, Krankenhaus der Barmherzigen
Schwestern Linz, 4010, Linz, Österreich, oliver.owen.koch@gmail.com.

For patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) who suffer from severe
symptoms despite adequate medical therapy, interventional procedures are the only
option for improving symptoms and thus the quality of life. In the clinical
practice it is decisive if a hiatal hernia (HH) is present or not and whether it 
is larger or smaller than 2-3 cm. Patients who have a HH > 2-3 cm should undergo 
laparoscopic fundoplication with hiatal hernia repair. Patients with a larger HH 
are no longer eligible for endoscopic therapy as closure of the HH is not
endoscopically possible. With the new laparoscopic methods (e.g. LINX and
electrical stimulation) HH closure is theoretically possible but sufficient data 
is lacking. Furthermore, if a hiatal closure is additionally carried out the
actual advantages of these methods are partly lost. Currently, outside of
clinical trials only laparoscopic fundoplication can be recommended for patients 
with GERD and HH, because convincing long-term data are only available for this
method. It seems that in clinical practice it is not so important what type of
fundoplication is performed, more important seems to be the experience of the
surgeon with the technique.

PMID: 25616745  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


546. Herz. 2015 Jan 25. [Epub ahead of print]

Relevance of P-glycoprotein in stroke prevention with dabigatran, rivaroxaban,
and apixaban.

Stöllberger C(1), Finsterer J.

Author information: 
(1)2. Medizinische Abteilung, Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Juchgasse 25,
Steingasse 31/18, 1030, Vienna, Austria, claudia.stoellberger@chello.at.

BACKGROUND: The new oral anticoagulants (NOAC) dabigatran etexilate, rivaroxaban,
and apixaban show similar efficacy for stroke prevention in patients with atrial 
fibrillation (AF) as the vitamin K antagonist warfarin. Absorption of NOACs is
dependent on the intestinal P-glycoprotein (P-gp) system and P-gp activity is
modulated by a variety of drugs and food components.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review is to give an overview of P-gp-associated
drug-drug and drug-food interactions with NOACs in AF patients.
METHODS: A literature search was carried out by screening MEDLINE for the terms
dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, P-glycoprotein, and atrial fibrillation from
1998 to 2013. Randomized clinical trials, longitudinal studies, case series, and 
case reports were included.
RESULTS: Concomitant medication with proton pump inhibitors, amiodarone,
clarithromycin, and verapamil increased bioavailability whereas rifampicin
decreased the bioavailability of dabigatran. Coadministration of erythromycin,
clarithromycin, fluconazole, ketoconazole, and ritonavir increased rivaroxaban
plasma concentrations. No data were found on apixaban and P-gp-modulating drugs
or on NOACs and food components modulating P-gp. The clinical relevance of
interactions between NOACs and P-gp-modulating drugs or food components is
largely unknown as bleeding complications under NOACs and P-gp-inhibiting drugs
are mainly reported from patients with concomitant renal failure.
CONCLUSION: There is an urgent need to investigate the role of P-gp-modulating
substances as potential sources of drug-drug and drug-food interactions. A
thorough analysis of the data accumulated in the three large NOAC trials
regarding the role of P-gp-modulating drugs in bleeding and embolic events is
desirable. Pharmacological studies should investigate the influence of
P-gp-modulating drugs and food on NOAC plasma concentrations and coagulation
parameters. When prescribing NOACs, patients should be informed about the
potential interactions with drugs and herbal drugs. Patients who develop bleeding
or embolic events under treatment with NOACs should be investigated for
comedications as well as for over-the-counter drugs and dietary habits. In
post-marketing surveillance of NOACs, the association with drug or food intake
with complications, bleeding, and embolic events should be registered.

PMID: 25616425  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


547. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Sci. 2015 Jan 25. doi: 10.1002/jhbp.210. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Molecular pathogenesis and targeted therapy of sporadic pancreatic neuroendocrine
tumors.

Capurso G(1), Archibugi L, Delle Fave G.

Author information: 
(1)Digestive and Liver Disease Unit, Faculty of Medicine and Psychology, Sapienza
University of Rome at S. Andrea Hospital, Rome, Italy.

Over the past few years, knowledge regarding the molecular pathology of sporadic 
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNETs) has increased substantially, and a
number of targeted agents have been tested in clinical trials in this tumor type.
For some of these agents there is a strong biological rationale. Among them, the 
mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor Everolimus and the antiangiogenic agent
Sunitinib have both been approved for the treatment of PNETs. However, there is
lack of knowledge regarding biomarkers able to predict their efficacy, and
mechanisms of resistance. Other angiogenesis inhibitors, such as Pazopanib,
inhibitors of Src, Hedgehog or of PI3K might all be useful in association or
sequence with approved agents. On the other hand, the clinical significance, and 
potential for treatment of the most common mutations occurring in sporadic PNETs,
in the MEN-1 gene and in ATRX and DAXX, remains uncertain. The present paper
reviews the main molecular changes occurring in PNETs and how they might be
linked with treatment options.

© 2015 Japanese Society of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery.

PMID: 25619712  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


548. Vaccine. 2015 Jan 25. pii: S0264-410X(15)00088-2. doi:
10.1016/j.vaccine.2015.01.044. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy of a trans-sialidase-ISCOMATRIX subunit vaccine candidate to protect
against experimental Chagas disease.

Bontempi IA(1), Vicco MH(1), Cabrera G(1), Villar SR(2), González FB(2), Roggero 
EA(2), Ameloot P(3), Callewaert N(3), Pérez AR(2), Marcipar IS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Bioquímica y Ciencias Biológicas, Universidad Nacional del
Litoral, Argentina. (2)IDICER-CONICET and Instituto de Inmunología, Facultad de
Ciencias Médicas, Universidad Nacional de Rosario, Argentina. (3)Medical
Biotechnology Unit, Inflammation Research Center, VIB, Ghent, Belgium; Department
of Biochemistry and Microbiology, Ghent University, Belgium. (4)Facultad de
Bioquímica y Ciencias Biológicas, Universidad Nacional del Litoral, Argentina.
Electronic address: imarcipr@gmail.com.

Recombinant protein vaccines are safe but elicit low immunological responses. The
new generation of adjuvants is currently reversing this situation. Here, a new
antigen-adjuvant combination for protection against experimental Chagas disease
was assessed. The antigen used in the formulation was a glycosylated mutant
inactive trans-sialidase (mTS) that was previously proven to be highly protective
against Trypanosoma cruzi infection; here, we show that it can be produced in
large quantities and high quality using Pichia pastoris. The adjuvant used in the
formulation was ISCOMATRIX (IMX), which was found to be effective and safe in
human clinical trials of vaccines designed to control other intracellular
infections. Fifteen days after the third immunization, mice immunized with
mTS-IMX showed a TS-specific IgG response with titers >10(6) and high avidity, an
increased IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, significant delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH)
reactivity, a balanced production of IFN-γ and IL-10 by splenocytes and a strong 
IFN-γ secretion by CD8(+) T lymphocytes. When these mice where challenged with
1000 trypomastigotes of T. cruzi, all mTS-IMX immunized mice survived, whereas
mice immunized with mTS alone, IMX or PBS exhibited high mortality. Remarkably,
during acute infection, when the parasitemia is highest in this infection model
(day 21), mTS-IMX immunized mice had ∼50 times less parasitemia than
non-immunized mice. At this moment and also in the chronic phase, 100 days after 
infection, tissue presented ∼4.5 times lower parasite load and associated
inflammatory infiltrate and lesions. These results indicate that protection
against Chagas disease can be achieved by a protein antigen-adjuvant mTS
formulation that is compatible with human medicine. Therefore, the current
formulation is a highly promising T. cruzi vaccine candidate to be tested in
clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25625671  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


549. Ageing Res Rev. 2015 Jan 24. pii: S1568-1637(15)00004-5. doi:
10.1016/j.arr.2015.01.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Resveratrol supplementation: Where are we now and where should we go?

Novelle MG(1), Wahl D(2), Dieguez C(3), Bernier M(2), de Cabo R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore,
MD 21224, USA; Research Center of Molecular Medicine and Chronic Diseases
(CIMUS), University of Santiago de Compostela-Instituto de Investigación
Sanitaria, Santiago de Compostela 15782, Spain; CIBER Fisiopatología de la
Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBERobn), Santiago de Compostela 15706, Spain.
(2)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore,
MD 21224, USA. (3)Research Center of Molecular Medicine and Chronic Diseases
(CIMUS), University of Santiago de Compostela-Instituto de Investigación
Sanitaria, Santiago de Compostela 15782, Spain; CIBER Fisiopatología de la
Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBERobn), Santiago de Compostela 15706, Spain.
(4)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging, NIH, Baltimore,
MD 21224, USA. Electronic address: decabora@grc.nia.nih.gov.

Pre-clinical findings have provided mounting evidence that resveratrol, a dietary
polyphenol, may confer health benefits and protect against a variety of medical
conditions and age-related complications. However, there is no consistent
evidence of an increased protection against metabolic disorders and other
ailments when comparing studies in laboratory animals and humans. A number of
extraneous and potential confounding variables can affect the outcome of clinical
research. To date, most of the studies that have investigated the effect of
resveratrol administration on patient outcomes have been limited by their sample 
sizes. In this review, we will survey the latest advances regarding the timing,
dosage, formulation, bioavailability, toxicity of resveratrol, and
resveratrol-drug interactions in human studies. Moreover, the present report
focuses on the actions of resveratrol treatment in combating diseases, such as
cancer, diabetes, neurodegeneration, cardiovascular disease, and other
age-related ailments.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25625901  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


550. Am J Cardiol. 2015 Jan 24. pii: S0002-9149(15)00126-5. doi:
10.1016/j.amjcard.2015.01.043. [Epub ahead of print]

ST2 and Patient Prognosis in Chronic Heart Failure.

Bayes-Genis A(1), Zhang Y(2), Ky B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiology Service, Hospital Universitari Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona,
Spain; Department of Medicine, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona,
Spain. Electronic address: abayesgenis@gmail.com. (2)Heart Failure Center Fuwai
Hospital, National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. (3)Cardiovascular
Institute, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

Biomarkers of cardiovascular diseases are indispensable tools for diagnosis and
prognosis, and the use of several biomarkers is now considered the standard of
care. New markers continue to be developed, but few prove to be substantially
better than established markers. Suppression of tumorigenicity 2 (ST2) is a
marker of cardiomyocyte stress and fibrosis that provides incremental value to
natriuretic peptides for risk stratification of patients with a wide spectrum of 
cardiovascular diseases. On the basis of all available data, the 2013 American
College of Cardiology and American Heart Association guidelines now recommend
measurement of ST2 for additive risk stratification in patients with acute or
chronic ambulatory heart failure (HF). This report provides an up-to-date
overview of the clinical studies that led to the endorsement of ST2 as a
cardiovascular prognostic marker in chronic HF. The presented data suggest that
the addition of ST2 to a model that includes established mortality risk factors, 
including natriuretic peptides, substantially improves the risk stratification
for death and HF hospitalization in patients with HF. ST2's prognostic value
remains strong even in the subset of patients with renal insufficiency and is
superior to other remodeling-fibrosis biomarkers currently being evaluated. In
conclusion, these results have been repeatedly validated; thus, ST2 could be
rapidly incorporated into clinical practice for risk prediction. Indeed, the body
of evidence supporting the use of ST2 in chronic HF stratification continues to
grow, with consistent data from cohorts around the world in single-center
(Barcelona, Brussels, and San Diego cohorts) and multicenter (Penn Heart Failure 
Study [PHFS] and Muerte Subita en Insuficiencia Cardiac [MUSIC]) studies and in
post hoc studies from clinical trials (Prospective Randomized Amlodipine Survival
Evaluation 2 [PRAISE-2], Heart Failure: A Controlled Trial Investigating Outcomes
of Exercise Training [HF-ACTION], and Controlled Rosuvastatin Multinational Trial
in Heart Failure [CORONA]).

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25665758  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


551. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2015 Jan 24;15(1):7. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-15-7.

Noncompaction cardiomyopathy: a substrate for a thromboembolic event.

Tavares de Melo MD(1), Araújo Filho JA, Parga Filho JR, de Lima CR, Mady C,
Kalil-Filho R, Salemi VM.

Author information: 
(1)Heart Institute (InCor) do Hospital das Clínicas da Faculdade de Medicina da
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. marcelo_dtm@yahoo.com.br.

BACKGROUND: Noncompaction cardiomyopathy (NCC) is a rare genetic cardiomyopathy
characterized by a thin, compacted epicardial layer and an extensive noncompacted
endocardial layer. The clinical manifestations of this disease include
ventricular arrhythmia, heart failure, and systemic thromboembolism.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 43-year-old male was anticoagulated by pulmonary
thromboembolism for 1 year when he developed progressive dyspnea. Cardiovascular 
magnetic resonance imaging showed severe biventricular trabeculation with an
ejection fraction of 15%, ratio of maximum noncompacted/compacted diastolic
myocardial thickness of 3.2 and the presence of exuberant biventricular apical
thrombus.
CONCLUSION: Still under discussion is the issue of which patients and when they
should be anticoagulated. It is generally recommended to those presenting
ventricular systolic dysfunction, antecedent of systemic embolism, presence of
cardiac thrombus and atrial fibrillation. In clinical practice the patients with 
NCC and ventricular dysfunction have been given oral anticoagulation, although
there are no clinical trials showing the real safety and benefit of this
treatment.

PMID: 25618133  [PubMed - in process]


552. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 24. doi: 10.1111/bcp.12596. [Epub ahead of print]

Adverse drug reactions in special populations - the elderly.

Davies EA(1), O'Mahony MS.

Author information: 
(1)Specialist Registrar in Geriatric Medicine, University Hospital, Llandough,
Cardiff, South Glamorgan, UK.

The International Conference on Harmonisation considers older people a 'special
population', as they differ from younger adults in terms of comorbidity,
polypharmacy, pharmacokinetics and greater vulnerability to adverse drug
reactions (ADRs). Medical practice is often based on single disease guidelines
derived from clinical trials that have not included frail older people, or those 
with multiple morbidities. This presents a challenge caring for older people, as 
drug doses in trials may not be achievable in real world patients and risks of
ADRs are underestimated in clinical trial populations. The majority of ADRs in
older people are Type A, potentially avoidable and associated with commonly
prescribed medications. Several ADRs are particularly associated with major
adverse consequences in the elderly, their reduction is therefore a clinical
priority. Falls are strongly associated with benzodiazepines, neuroleptics,
antidepressants and antihypertensives. There is good evidence for medication
review as part of a multifactorial intervention to reduce falls risk in community
dwelling elderly. Multiple medications also contribute to delirium - another
multifactorial syndrome resulting in excess mortality particularly in frail older
people. Clostridium difficile associated with use of broad spectrum antibiotics
mainly affects frail older people and results in prolonged hospital stay with
substantial morbidity and mortality. Antipsychotics increase the risk of stroke
by more than 3 fold in patients with dementia. Inappropriate prescribing can be
reduced by adherence to prescribing guidelines, suitable monitoring and regular
medication review. Given the heterogeneity within the older population, providing
individualised care is pivotal to preventing ADRs.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25619317  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


553. Cardiovasc Res. 2015 Jan 24. pii: cvv016. [Epub ahead of print]

PI3Kα is essential for the recovery from Cre/tamoxifen cardiotoxicity and in
myocardial insulin signaling but is not required for normal myocardial
contractility in the adult heart.

McLean BA(1), Zhabyeyev P(2), Patel VB(2), Basu R(1), Parajuli N(2), DesAulniers 
J(2), Murray AG(3), Kassiri Z(1), Vanhaesebroeck B(4), Oudit GY(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
Mazankowski Alberta Heart Institute, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada. (2)Mazankowski Alberta Heart Institute, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Alberta, Canada Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. (3)Division of Nephrology, Department of
Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. (4)UCL Cancer
Institute, University College London, London, United Kingdom. (5)Department of
Physiology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada Mazankowski Alberta 
Heart Institute, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada Division of
Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada.

AIMS: Genetic mouse models have yielded conflicting conclusions about the role of
PI3Kα in heart physiology: specifically, the question of whether PI3Kα has a
direct role in regulating myocardial contractility. This has led to concerns that
PI3K inhibitors currently in clinical trials for cancer may potentiate
cardiotoxicity. Here we seek to clarify the role of PI3Kα in normal heart
physiology and investigate changes in related signaling pathways.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Targeted deletion of PI3Kα and PI3Kβ in the heart with a
tamoxifen dependent Cre recombinase transgene caused transient heart dysfunction 
in all genotypes, but only PI3Kα deletion prevented functional recovery.
Reduction in tamoxifen dosing allowed for maintained gene deletion without any
cardiomyopathy, possibly through activation of survival signaling through the
related ERK pathway. Similarly, mice with PI3Kα deletion induced by
constitutively active Cre recombinase had normal heart function. Insulin mediated
activation of Akt, a marker of PI3Kα activity, was impaired with increased ERK1/2
activation in PI3Kα mutant hearts. Pharmacological inhibition of PI3Kα with
BYL-719 also caused impaired insulin signaling in murine and human cardiomyocytes
as well as in vivo in mice, with increased fasting blood glucose levels, but did 
not affect myocardial contractility as determined by echocardiography and
invasive pressure-volume loop analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that PI3Kα does not directly regulate myocardial
contractility, but is required for recovery from tamoxifen/Cre toxicity. The
important role for PI3Kα in insulin signaling and recovery from tamoxifen/Cre
toxicity justifies caution when using PI3Kα inhibitors in combination with other 
cardiovascular comorbidities and cardiotoxic compounds in cancer patients.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. ©
The Author 2015. For permissions please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25618408  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


554. Cell Biochem Biophys. 2015 Jan 24. [Epub ahead of print]

The Endothelium as a Target for the Treatment of Heart Failure.

Yang O(1), Li J, Kong J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cadre Ward, The First Hospital of Jilin University, 71 Xinmin
Avenue, Changchun, 130021, Jilin Province, China.

The functional integrity of endothelial cells is a marker and a prerequisite for 
vascular health. It is well established that the endothelium not only modulates, 
but also mediates vascular disease processes. Certain diseases such as diabetes, 
dyslipidaemia, obesity, and arterial hypertension advance endothelial injury. The
disease process induces cellular and functional changes in endothelial cells
leading to a pathophysiological phenomenon referred to as endothelial cell
dysfunction, which involves abnormal vasomotion, an imbalance in reactive oxygen 
species and nitric oxide, the activation of inflammation, and disruption of the
coagulation process of the endothelial cells. With this knowledge, it is now
known that vascular function plays a central role in the development and
progression of heart failure (HF). HF is the primary cause of patient
hospitalization. There is a strong desire to intervene and prevent the growing HF
epidemic. Over the last decade, numerous therapies have been evaluated but few
have led to positive results in the later stages of clinical trials. Efforts are 
currently being made to understand the pathophysiology of endothelial dysfunction
and use this knowledge to identify novel agents or therapeutic targets that will 
improve the outcome of patients with HF and restore the normal function of the
endothelium. The purpose of this review is to present a brief summary of the
traditional approaches that have been taken to improve endothelial dysfunction
and combat HF and, more importantly, to discuss some novel therapeutic approaches
that are still under investigation, including the use of gene therapy and
nanocarriers as means of delivering targets to the dysfunctional endothelium as
treatment for HF.

PMID: 25616442  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


555. Contemp Clin Trials. 2015 Jan 24. pii: S1551-7144(15)00020-8. doi:
10.1016/j.cct.2015.01.008. [Epub ahead of print]

Effectiveness of Nasal Irrigation for Chronic Rhinosinusitis and Fatigue in
Patients with Gulf War Illness: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.

Hayer SD(1), Rabago DP(2), Amaza IP(1), Kille T(3), Zgierska A(1), Zakletskaia
L(1), Krahn D(4), Obasi CN(1), Molander RC(4).

Author information: 
(1)1100 Delaplaine Court, Madison, WI 53715, Department of Family Medicine,
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison. (2)1100
Delaplaine Court, Madison, WI 53715, Department of Family Medicine, School of
Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison. Electronic address: 
David.rabago@fammed.wisc.edu. (3)600 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53792,
Department of Surgery, Division of Otolaryngology, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison. (4)Department of Psychiatry, Veterans
Administration Hospital, 2500 Overlook Terrace, Madison, WI 53705; Department of 
Psychiatry, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of
Wisconsin-Madison.

INTRODUCTION: Gulf War Illness (GWI) affects 1 in 7 returned Persian Gulf War
veterans. Quality-of-life impact is large; there is no cure. Chronic sinus
symptoms and fatigue are common. Nasal irrigation with saline (NI-S) or xylitol
(NI-X) improve sinus symptoms and fatigue in the general population. This trial
will assess the effect of S-NI and X-NI on sinus and fatigue symptoms, economic
outcomes and pro-inflammatory milieu among participants with GWI.
METHODS: 75 participants (age 35 to 65years, 25 in each of three arms) with GWI
will be recruited from the Veteran's Administration and the community. They will 
use routine care for sinus symptoms and fatigue and be randomized to continued
usual care alone or additional therapy with NI-S or NI-X. Participants will be
able to adjust specific elements of the NI procedure. The primary outcome
(Sinonasal Outcome Test, SNOT-20) and other self-reported assessments will occur 
at baseline, 8 and 26weeks; lab assessment of pro-inflammatory cellular and
cytokine profiles will occur at baseline and 26weeks. Other outcomes will include
fatigue-specific and overall health-related quality of life, pro-inflammatory
cellular and cytokine profiles, cost-effectiveness and participant satisfaction.
RESULTS: Baseline demographic and clinical data from the first 10 participants
show effective participant recruitment, enrollment, randomization, retention and 
data collection.
CONCLUSION: Early study conduct suggests our participant-oriented approach will
yield high rates of participant adherence and data capture, facilitating robust
analysis. Results of this study will clarify the value of NI for chronic sinus
symptoms and fatigue among patients with GWI.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials.gov Identifier NCT01700725.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25625809  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


556. Cytotherapy. 2015 Jan 24. pii: S1465-3249(14)00894-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jcyt.2014.12.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Adoptive immunotherapy with the use of regulatory T cells and virus-specific T
cells derived from cord blood.

Hanley PJ(1), Bollard CM(2), Brunstein CG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Program for Cell Enhancement and Technologies for Immunotherapy, Children's
National Medical Center and The George Washington University, Washington, DC,
USA; Center for Cancer and Immunology Research, Children's National Medical
Center and The George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA; Division of
Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Children's National Medical Center and The
George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA; Sheikh Zayed Institute for
Pediatric Surgical Innovation, Children's National Medical Center and The George 
Washington University, Washington, DC, USA. Electronic address:
PHanley@childrensnational.org. (2)Program for Cell Enhancement and Technologies
for Immunotherapy, Children's National Medical Center and The George Washington
University, Washington, DC, USA; Center for Cancer and Immunology Research,
Children's National Medical Center and The George Washington University,
Washington, DC, USA; Division of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Children's
National Medical Center and The George Washington University, Washington, DC,
USA; Sheikh Zayed Institute for Pediatric Surgical Innovation, Children's
National Medical Center and The George Washington University, Washington, DC,
USA. (3)Blood and Marrow Transplant Program, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA. Electronic address: Bruns072@umn.edu.

Cord blood transplantation, an alternative to traditional stem cell transplants
(bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation), is an attractive
option for patients lacking suitable stem cell transplant donors. Cord blood
units have also proven to be a valuable donor source for the development of
cellular therapeutics. Virus-specific T cells and regulatory T cells are two cord
blood-derived products that have shown promise in early-phase clinical trials to 
prevent and/or treat viral infections and graft-versus-host disease,
respectively. We describe how current strategies that use cord blood-derived
regulatory T cells and virus-specific T cells have been developed to improve
outcomes for cord blood transplant recipients.

Copyright © 2015 International Society for Cellular Therapy. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25632003  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


557. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2015 Jan 24. pii: pyv009. doi: 10.1093/ijnp/pyv009.
[Epub ahead of print]

Preclinical assessment of lisdexamfetamine as a candidate "agonist" medication
for cocaine addiction: Effects in rhesus monkeys trained to discriminate cocaine 
or to self-administer cocaine in a cocaine-vs.-food choice procedure.

Banks ML(1), Hutsell BA(2), Blough BE(3), Poklis JL(2), Negus SS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Virginia Commonwealth University,
Richmond, VA, USA Institute for Drug and Alcohol Studies, Virginia Commonwealth
University, Richmond, VA, USA mbanks7@vcu.edu. (2)Department of Pharmacology and 
Toxicology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA. (3)Center for
Organic and Medicinal Chemistry, Research Triangle Institute International,
Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. (4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology,
Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA Institute for Drug and
Alcohol Studies, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA.

Background: Chronic amphetamine treatment decreases cocaine consumption in
preclinical and human laboratory studies and in clinical trials. Lisdexamfetamine
is an amphetamine prodrug in which L-lysine is conjugated to the terminal
nitrogen of d-amphetamine. Prodrugs may be advantageous relative to their active 
metabolites due to slower onsets and longer durations of action; however,
lisdexamfetamine treatment efficacy to decrease cocaine consumption is unknown.
Methods: This study compared lisdexamfetamine and d-amphetamine effects in rhesus
monkeys using two behavioral procedures: 1) a cocaine discrimination procedure
(training dose = 0.32 mg/kg cocaine, IM), and 2) a cocaine-vs.-food choice
self-administration procedure. Results: In the cocaine-discrimination procedure, 
lisdexamfetamine (0.32-3.2 mg/kg, IM) substituted for cocaine with lower potency,
slower onset, and longer duration of action than d-amphetamine (0.032-0.32 mg/kg,
IM). Consistent with the function of lisdexamfetamine as an inactive prodrug for 
amphetamine, the time course of lisdexamfetamine effects was related to
d-amphetamine plasma levels by a counter-clockwise hysteresis loop. In the choice
procedure, cocaine (0-0.1 mg/kg, IV) and food (1-g banana-flavored pellets) were 
concurrently available, and cocaine maintained a dose-dependent increase in
cocaine choice under baseline conditions. Treatment for seven consecutive days
with lisdexamfetamine (0.32-3.2 mg/kg/day, IM) or d-amphetamine (0.032-0.1
mg/kg/h, IV) produced similar dose-dependent rightward shifts in cocaine
dose-effect curves and decreases in preference for 0.032 mg/kg/injection cocaine.
Conclusions: Lisdexamfetamine has a slower onset and longer duration of action
that amphetamine but retains amphetamine's efficacy to reduce cocaine-vs.-food
choice in rhesus monkeys. These results support further consideration of
lisdexamfetamine as a candidate "agonist-based" medication for cocaine addiction.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

PMID: 25618405  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


558. Life Sci. 2015 Jan 24. pii: S0024-3205(15)00048-X. doi:
10.1016/j.lfs.2014.12.030. [Epub ahead of print]

Molecular mechanisms behind the biological effects of hesperidin and hesperetin
for the prevention of cancer and cardiovascular diseases.

Roohbakhsh A(1), Parhiz H(2), Soltani F(3), Rezaee R(1), Iranshahi M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Center, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. (2)Pharmaceutical Research Center, School of
Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Department of
Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. (3)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of
Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Biotechnology
Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; School of
Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. (4)Biotechnology
Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; School of
Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic
address: Iranshahim@mums.ac.ir.

Hesperidin (Hsd) and its aglycone, hesperetin (Hst), are two flavonoids from
citrus species that have various biological properties, particularly those for
the prevention of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Studies have shown both
anti-cancer and cancer chemopreventive effects for Hsd and Hst. Cancer
chemopreventive properties of Hsd and Hst are mainly associated with their
antioxidant, radical scavenging and anti-inflammatory activities. In addition,
Hsd and Hst interfere at different stages of cancer. Unlike conventional
anti-cancer drugs, Hsd and Hst inhibit tumor growth by targeting multiple
cellular protein targets at the same time, including caspases, Bcl-2 (B-cell
lymphoma 2) and Bax (Bcl-2 associated X protein) for the induction of apoptosis, 
and COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2), MMP-2 (matrix metalloproteinase-2) and MMP-9 for
the inhibition of angiogenesis and metastasis. The results of the recent basic
and clinical studies revealed the beneficial effects for Hst, Hsd and their
derivatives in the treatment of heart failure and cardiac remodeling, myocardial 
ischemia and infarction, and hypertension. In addition, the valuable effects of
Hst and Hsd in the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia with their
anti-platelet and anti-coagulant effects make them good candidates in the
treatment of various cardiovascular diseases. In this review, new findings
regarding the molecular targets of Hsd and Hst, animal studies and clinical
trials are discussed.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25625242  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


559. Urol Oncol. 2015 Jan 24. pii: S1078-1439(14)00466-9. doi:
10.1016/j.urolonc.2014.12.013. [Epub ahead of print]

Independent data monitoring committees: An update and overview.

Sartor O(1), Halabi S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA;
Department of Urology, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA.
Electronic address: osartor@tulane.edu. (2)Department of Biostatistics and
Bioinformatics, Duke University, Durham, NC.

An independent data monitoring committee׳s (IDMC׳s) duty is to ensure that the
interests of the patients entered in the trial are being well served (i.e., the
risk-benefit ratio is appropriate) and that the scientific integrity of the trial
is maintained during the interim between trial initiation and trial completion.
Industry sponsors form IDMCs to ensure an independent assessment to assure that
the study participants are not exposed to unnecessary or unreasonable risks
because of their trial participation and to ensure that the study is being
conducted according to highest scientific and ethical standards. IDMCs are needed
to analyze interim data for large randomized studies, in particular those that
involve multiple sites and important clinical end points such as survival or
disease progression. Ethical principles mandate that clinical trials begin with
uncertainty as to which treatment is better (clinical equipoise). This
uncertainty should be maintained during study conduct and analysis unless there
are compelling data that emerge during the conduct of the trial. Group sequential
statistical designs offer a mechanism to consider terminating a trial early and
the results made public if the interim data become sufficiently compelling.
Interim monitoring of safety and efficacy data is an integral part of modern
clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25631301  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


560. Virol J. 2015 Jan 24;12(1):3. doi: 10.1186/s12985-014-0221-0.

HIV-1 vaccine immunogen design strategies.

Mann JK, Ndung'u T(1).

Author information: 
(1)HIV Pathogenesis Programme, University of KwaZulu-Natal, 719 Umbilo Road,
Durban 4001, South Africa. ndungu@ukzn.ac.za.

An effective human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) vaccine is expected to
have the greatest impact on HIV-1 spread and remains a global scientific
priority. Only one candidate vaccine has significantly reduced HIV-1 acquisition,
yet at a limited efficacy of 31%, and none have delayed disease progression in
vaccinated individuals. Thus, the challenge remains to develop HIV-1 immunogens
that will elicit protective immunity. A combination of two independent approaches
- namely the elicitation of broadly neutralising antibodies (bNAb) to prevent or 
reduce acquisition of infection and stimulation of effective cytotoxic T
lymphocyte (CTL) responses to slow disease progression in breakthrough infections
(recent evidence suggests that CTLs could also block HIV-1 from establishing
persistent infection) - is the current ideal. The purpose of this review is to
summarise strategies and progress in the design and testing of HIV-1 immunogens
to elicit bNAb and protective CTL immune responses. Recent advances in mimicking 
the functional native envelope trimer structure and in designing
structurally-stabilised bNAb epitope forms to drive development of germline
precursors to mature bNAb are highlighted. Systematic or computational approaches
to T cell immunogen design aimed at covering viral diversity, increasing the
breadth of immune responses and/or reducing viable viral escape are discussed. We
also discuss a recent novel vaccine vector approach shown to induce extremely
broad and persistent T cell responses that could clear highly pathogenic simian
immunodeficiency virus (SIV) early after infection in the monkey model. While in 
vitro and animal model data are promising, Phase II and III human clinical trials
are ultimately needed to determine the efficacy of immunogen design approaches.

PMCID: PMC4318220
PMID: 25616599  [PubMed - in process]


561. AIDS Patient Care STDS. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Barriers to Antiretroviral Therapy Adherence and Plasma HIV RNA Suppression Among
AIDS Clinical Trials Group Study Participants.

Saberi P(1), Neilands TB, Vittinghoff E, Johnson MO, Chesney M, Cohn SE.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Medicine, University of California , San Francisco,
California.

We conducted a secondary data analysis of 11 AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG)
studies to examine longitudinal associations between 14 self-reported
antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence barriers (at 12 weeks) and plasma HIV RNA 
(at 24 weeks) and to discern the relative importance of these barriers in
explaining virologic detectability. Studies enrolled from 1997 to 2003 and
concluded between 2002 and 2012. We included 1496 (54.2% of the original sample) 
with complete data. The most commonly selected barriers were "away from home"
(21.9%), "simply forgot" (19.6%), "change in daily routine" (19.5%), and "fell
asleep/slept through dosing time" (18.9%). In bivariate analyses, "too many pills
to take" (OR=0.43, p<0.001), "wanted to avoid side effects" (OR=0.54, p=0.001),
"felt drug was toxic/harmful" (OR=0.44, p<0.001), "felt sick or ill" (OR=0.49,
p<0.001), "felt depressed/overwhelmed" (OR=0.58, p=0.004), and "problem taking
pills at specified time" (OR=0.71, p=0.04) were associated with a lower odds of
an undetectable HIV RNA. "Too many pills to take," "wanted to avoid side
effects," "felt drug was toxic/harmful," "felt sick/ill,", and "felt
depressed/overwhelmed" had the highest relative importance in explaining
virologic detectability. "Simply forgot" was not associated with HIV RNA
(OR=0.99, p=0.95) and was ninth in its relative importance. Adherence
interventions should prioritize barriers with highest importance in explaining
virologic outcomes rather than focusing on more commonly reported barriers.

PMID: 25615029  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


562. Am J Ther. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Demographics of Clinical Trials Participants in Pivotal Clinical Trials for New
Molecular Entity Drugs and Biologics Approved by FDA From 2010 to 2012.

Eshera N(1), Itana H, Zhang L, Soon G, Fadiran EO.

Author information: 
(1)1Office of Women's Health (OWH), Office of the Commissioner (OC), Food and
Drug Administration, Silver Spring, MD; 2Office of Clinical Pharmacology, Office 
of Translational Sciences (OTS), Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER), 
Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring, MD; and 3Office of Biostatistics,
OTS, CDER, Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring, MD.

To fully assess the safety and efficacy of therapeutics before approval, the US
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has encouraged adequate representation and
assessment of demographic subgroups in clinical trials through guidance documents
and regulations. This study aimed to survey the demographics of participants in
pivotal clinical trials, as well as the presence of analyses by sex on efficacy
and safety for FDA-approved new drug applications (NDAs) and biologics license
applications (BLAs) from 2010 to 2012. Medical and statistical reviews for new
molecular entity drugs and biological products approved during this period were
obtained from Drugs@FDA. All pivotal clinical trials referenced in the FDA
reviews were evaluated for the participation of different demographic subgroups
(such as sex, race/ethnicity, and age). Pivotal trials were defined as those
phase 2 and/or phase 3 trials described in the labeling or the FDA medical
reviews in support of the drug/biological approval. Eighty-three new molecular
entities (66 NDAs and 17 BLAs) were approved by the FDA from 2010 to 2012.
Overall, women constituted 45% of trial participants for NDAs and 65% for BLAs.
Sex analysis related to safety and efficacy was reported in 92% of the surveyed
FDA medical and statistical reviews. Most NDAs and BLAs (82%) had a study
population that was representative of the sex distribution for the intended
patient population; however, most study participants were whites (77%), and
minority racial/ethnic groups had lower participation rates in the study
population than would be representative of the US racial group populations.

PMID: 25621972  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


563. Ann Surg. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

The Impact of Enhanced Recovery Protocol Compliance on Elective Colorectal Cancer
Resection: Results From an International Registry.

ERAS Compliance Group.

Collaborators: Currie A, Burch J, Jenkins JT, Faiz O, Kennedy RH, Ljungqvist O,
Demartines N, Hjern F, Norderval S, Lassen K, Revhaug A, Koczkas T, Nygren J,
Gustafsson U, Kornfeld D, Slim K, Hill A, Soop M, Carlander J, Lundberg O, Fearon
K.

BACKGROUND:: The ERAS (enhanced recovery after surgery) care has been shown in
randomized clinical trials to improve outcome after colorectal surgery compared
to traditional care. The impact of different levels of compliance and specific
elements, particularly out with a trial setting, is poorly understood.
OBJECTIVE:: This study evaluated the individual impact of specific patient
factors and perioperative enhanced recovery protocol compliance on postoperative 
outcome after elective primary colorectal cancer resection.
METHODS:: The international, multicenter ERAS registry data, collected between
November 2008 and March 2013, was reviewed. Patient demographics, disease
characteristics, and perioperative ERAS protocol compliance were assessed. Linear
regression was undertaken for primary admission duration and logistic regression 
for the development of any postoperative complication.
FINDINGS:: A total of 1509 colonic and 843 rectal resections were undertaken in
13 centers from 6 countries. Median length of stay for colorectal resections was 
6 days, with readmissions in 216 (9.2%), complications in 948 (40%), and
reoperation in 167 (7.1%) of 2352 patients. Laparoscopic surgery was associated
with reduced complications [odds ratio (OR) = 0.68; P < 0.001] and length of stay
(OR = 0.83, P < 0.001). Increasing ERAS compliance was correlated with fewer
complications (OR = 0.69, P < 0.001) and shorter primary hospital admission (OR =
0.88, P < 0.001). Shorter hospital stay was associated with preoperative
carbohydrate and fluid loading (OR = 0.89, P = 0.001), and totally intravenous
anesthesia (OR = 0.86, P < 0.001); longer stay was associated with intraoperative
epidural analgesia (OR = 1.07, P = 0.019). Reduced postoperative complications
were associated with restrictive perioperative intravenous fluids (OR = 0.35, P <
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS:: This analysis has demonstrated that in a large, international
cohort of patients, increasing compliance with an ERAS program and the use of
laparoscopic surgery independently improve outcome.

PMID: 25671587  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


564. Cell Transplant. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Applicability of Adipose-Derived Stem Cells in Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus.

Lin HP, Chan TM, Fu RH, Chuu CP, Chiu SC, Tseng YH, Liu SP, Lai KC, Shih MC, Lin 
ZS, Chen HS, Yeh DC, Lin SZ.

Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is a form of early-onset diabetes mellitus
characterized by the autoimmune destruction of insulin-producing cells (IPCs),
resulting in hyperglycemia and abnormal glucose metabolism. There are currently
no treatments available, capable of completely curing the symptoms associated
with the loss or functional defects of IPCs. Nonetheless, stem cell therapy has
demonstrated considerable promise in the replacement of IPCs with
immunomodulatory functions to overcome the defects caused by T1DM.
Adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) are particularly suitable for use in cell
transplantation therapy, particularly when seeking to avoid the ethical issues
and tumorigenic complications commonly associated with embryos or induced
pluripotent stem cells. Cell-based treatments have demonstrated therapeutic
advantages and clinical applicability of ADSCs in T1DM, ensuring their
suitability for transplantation therapy. This manuscript focuses on the benefits 
and possible mechanisms in a T1DM-relevant model and displays positive results
from finished or ongoing human clinical trials. We also discuss and hypothesize
potential methods to further enhance the therapeutic efficacy of these efforts,
such as a humanized rodent model and gene therapies for IPC clusters, to meet the
clinical applicability of the standard.

PMID: 25621468  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


565. Crit Care. 2015 Jan 23;19(1):20. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide on gastric emptying,
glycaemia and insulinaemia during critical illness: a prospective, double blind, 
randomised, crossover study.

Kar P, Cousins CE, Annink CE, Jones KL, Chapman MJ, Meier JJ, Nauck M, Horowitz
M, Deane AM.

IntroductionInsulin is used to treat hyperglycaemia in critically ill patients
but can cause hypoglycaemia, which is associated with poorer outcomes. In health 
glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) is a potent glucose-lowering
peptide that does not cause hypoglycaemia. The objectives of this study were to
determine the effects of exogenous GIP infusion on blood glucose concentrations, 
glucose absorption, insulinaemia and gastric emptying in critically ill patients 
without known diabetes.MethodsA total of 20 ventilated patients (Median age 61
(range: 22 to 79) years, APACHE II 21.5 (17 to 26), BMI 28 (21 to 40) kg/m2)
without known diabetes were studied on two consecutive days in a randomised,
double blind, placebo controlled, cross-over fashion. Intravenous GIP
(4pmol/kg/min) or placebo (0.9% saline) was infused between T¿=¿¿60 to
300 minutes. At T0, 100 ml of liquid nutrient (2 kcal/ml) containing
3-O-Methylglucose (3-OMG), 100mcg of Octanoic acid and 20 MBq Tc-99m Calcium
Phytate, was administered via a nasogastric tube. Blood glucose and serum 3-OMG
(an index of glucose absorption) concentrations were measured. Gastric emptying, 
insulin and glucagon levels and plasma GIP concentrations were also
measured.ResultsWhile administration of GIP increased plasma GIP concentrations
three- to four-fold (T¿=¿¿60 23.9 (16.5 to 36.7) versus T¿=¿0 84.2 (65.3 to
111.1); P <0.001) and plasma glucagon (iAUC300 4217 (1891 to 7715) versus 1232
(293 to 4545) pg/ml.300 minutes; P¿=¿0.04), there were no effects on postprandial
blood glucose (AUC300 2843 (2568 to 3338) versus 2819 (2550 to 3497)
mmol/L.300 minutes; P¿=¿0.86), gastric emptying (AUC300 15611 (10993 to 18062)
versus 15660 (9694 to 22618) %.300 minutes; P¿=¿0.61), glucose absorption (AUC300
50.6 (22.3 to 74.2) versus 64.3 (9.9 to 96.3) mmol/L.300 minutes; P¿=¿0.62) or
plasma insulin (AUC300 3945 (2280 to 6731) versus 3479 (2316 to 6081)
mU/L.300 minutes; P¿=¿0.76).ConclusionsIn contrast to its profound insulinotropic
effect in health, the administration of GIP at pharmacological doses does not
appear to affect glycaemia, gastric emptying, glucose absorption or insulinaemia 
in the critically ill patient.Trial registrationAustralian New Zealand Clinical
Trials Registry ACTRN12612000488808. Registered 3 May 2012.

PMID: 25613747  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


566. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2015 Jan 23:0. [Epub ahead of print]

Fruit polyphenols: A review of anti-inflammatory effects in humans.

Joseph SV(1), Edirisinghe I, Burton-Freeman BM.

Author information: 
(1)a Center for Nutrition Research, Institute for Food Safety and Health,
Illinois Institute of Technology , IL , USA.

Abstract Underlying etiological factors in the development of obesity-related
chronic diseases are long-term imbalances of oxidative and inflammatory stress
leading to tissue dysfunction, damage and ultimately failure. Poor dietary
quality contributes significantly to the oxidative and inflammatory status of an 
individual. Conversely, various dietary approaches, including specific dietary
factors can mitigate or prevent the occurrence of these risk-conferring
imbalances brought about by modern lifestyle. Plant derived polyphenolic
compounds are well known for their antioxidant properties. Recent evidence
indicates these compounds may confer anti-inflammatory and/or inflammatory
response stabilizing activities, which would have important implications in
health maintenance and disease risk reduction. Commonly consumed fruits, such as 
grapes, berries, and oranges/orange juice, contain polyphenolic compounds that
have been studied for their effects on inflammation, but the nature and extent of
their effects in humans remain unclear. Therefore, this article aims to provide a
comprehensive overview of human clinical trials investigating the acute and
chronic (feeding) effect of polyphenols from commonly consumed fruits or their
derived products on inflammation.

PMID: 25616409  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


567. Curr Opin Immunol. 2015 Jan 23;33C:9-15. doi: 10.1016/j.coi.2015.01.002. [Epub
ahead of print]

Designing chimeric antigen receptors to effectively and safely target tumors.

Jensen MC(1), Riddell SR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Seattle Children's Research Institute, Seattle, WA, United States; University 
of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States; Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Institute, Seattle, WA, United States. Electronic address:
Michael.jensen@seattlechildrens.org. (2)University of Washington, Seattle, WA,
United States; Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Institute, Seattle, WA, United
States; Institute for Advanced Study, Technical University of Munich, Munich,
Germany.

The adoptive transfer of T cells engineered to express artificial chimeric
antigen receptors CARs) that target a tumor cell surface molecule has emerged as 
an exciting new approach for cancer immunotherapy. Clinical trials in patients
with advanced B cell malignancies treated with CD19-specific CAR-modified T cells
(CAR-T) have shown impressive antitumor efficacy, leading to optimism that this
approach will be useful for treating common solid tumors. Because CAR-T cells
recognize tumor cells independent of their expression of human leukocyte antigen 
(HLA) molecules, tumors that escape conventional T cells by downregulating HLA
and/or mutating components of the antigen processing machinery can be eliminated.
The ability to introduce or delete additional genes in T cells has the potential 
to provide therapeutic cell products with novel attributes that overcome
impediments to immune mediated tumor elimination in immunosuppressive tumor
microenvironments. This review will discuss recent concepts in the development of
effective and safe synthetic CARs for adoptive T cell therapy (ACT).

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25621840  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


568. Exp Mol Med. 2015 Jan 23;47:e134. doi: 10.1038/emm.2014.93.

Genomic assays for Epstein-Barr virus-positive gastric adenocarcinoma.

Gulley ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine and Lineberger Comprehensive
Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

A small set of gastric adenocarcinomas (9%) harbor Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA
within malignant cells, and the virus is not an innocent bystander but rather is 
intimately linked to pathogenesis and tumor maintenance. Evidence comes from
unique genomic features of host DNA, mRNA, microRNA and CpG methylation profiles 
as revealed by recent comprehensive genomic analysis by The Cancer Genome Atlas
Network. Their data show that gastric cancer is not one disease but rather
comprises four major classes: EBV-positive, microsatellite instability (MSI),
genomically stable and chromosome instability. The EBV-positive class has even
more marked CpG methylation than does the MSI class, and viral cancers have a
unique pattern of methylation linked to the downregulation of CDKN2A (p16) but
not MLH1. EBV-positive cancers often have mutated PIK3CA and ARID1A and an
amplified 9p24.1 locus linked to overexpression of JAK2, CD274 (PD-L1) and
PDCD1LG2 (PD-L2). Multiple noncoding viral RNAs are highly expressed. Patients
who fail standard therapy may qualify for enrollment in clinical trials targeting
cancer-related human gene pathways or promoting destruction of infected cells
through lytic induction of EBV genes. Genomic tests such as the GastroGenus
Gastric Cancer Classifier are available to identify actionable variants in
formalin-fixed cancer tissue of affected patients.

PMCID: PMC4314585
PMID: 25613731  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


569. J Cancer Educ. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Comprehension of Randomization and Uncertainty in Cancer Clinical Trials Decision
Making Among Rural, Appalachian Patients.

Krieger JL(1), Palmer-Wackerly A, Dailey PM, Krok-Schoen JL, Schoenberg NE,
Paskett ED.

Author information: 
(1)College of Journalism and Communications, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
FL, USA, janicekrieger@jou.ufl.edu.

Comprehension of randomization is a vital, but understudied, component of
informed consent to participate in cancer randomized clinical trials (RCTs). This
study examines patient comprehension of the randomization process as well as
sources of ongoing uncertainty that may inhibit a patient's ability to provide
informed consent to participate in RCTs. Cancer patients living in rural
Appalachia who were offered an opportunity to participate in a cancer treatment
RCT completed in-depth interviews and a brief survey. No systematic differences
in randomization comprehension between patients who consented and those who
declined participation in a cancer RCT were detected. Comprehension is
conceptually distinct from uncertainty, with patients who had both high and low
comprehension experiencing randomization-related uncertainty. Uncertainty about
randomization was found to have cognitive and affective dimensions. Not all
patients enrolling in RCTs have a sufficient understanding of the randomization
process to provide informed consent. Healthcare providers need to be aware of the
different types of randomization-related uncertainty. Efforts to improve informed
consent to participate in RCTs should focus on having patients teach back their
understanding of randomization. This practice could yield valuable information
about the patient's cognitive and affective understanding of randomization as
well as opportunities to correct misperceptions. Education about RCTs should
reflect patient expectations of individualized care by explaining how all
treatments being compared are appropriate to the specifics of a patient's
disease.

PMID: 25608719  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


570. J Dairy Sci. 2015 Jan 23. pii: S0022-0302(15)00030-2. doi: 10.3168/jds.2014-9135.
[Epub ahead of print]

Short communication: Efficacy of copper sulfate hoof baths against digital
dermatitis-Where is the evidence?

Thomsen PT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, Aarhus University, PO Box 50, DK-8830 Tjele,
Denmark. Electronic address: ptt@anis.au.dk.

Digital dermatitis is a major problem in modern dairy production because of
decreased animal welfare and financial losses. Individual cow treatments are
often seen as too time consuming by farmers, and walk-through hoof baths have
therefore been used extensively to control digital dermatitis. For decades,
copper sulfate hoof baths have been used to treat and prevent digital dermatitis.
Copper sulfate has been referred to as the industry gold standard when it comes
to hoof-bath chemicals. In several scientific studies testing the efficacy of
other hoof-care products, copper sulfate has been used as a positive control,
thereby indicating that copper sulfate has a known positive effect. However, this
may not be the case. A dilemma may exist between (1) copper sulfate generally
being perceived as being effective against digital dermatitis and (2) a possible 
lack of well-documented scientific evidence of this effect. The objective of this
study was to evaluate the existing scientific literature to determine whether the
efficacy of copper sulfate used in hoof baths against digital dermatitis has in
fact been demonstrated scientifically. A systematic literature search identified 
7 peer-reviewed journal articles describing the efficacy of copper sulfate in
hoof baths as treatment or prevention of bovine digital dermatitis. Only 2 of the
7 studies compared copper sulfate to a negative control; most studies were
relatively small, and often no clear positive effect of copper sulfate was
demonstrated. In conclusion, the frequent claim that copper sulfate is widely
reported to be effective is supported by little scientific evidence.
Well-designed clinical trials evaluating the effect of copper sulfate against
digital dermatitis compared with a negative control are needed. Until such
studies have been made, the efficacy of copper sulfate in hoof baths against
digital dermatitis remains largely unproven.

Copyright © 2015 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25622864  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


571. J Diet Suppl. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

An Evidence-Based Systematic Review of Lutein by the Natural Standard Research
Collaboration.

Ulbricht C.

ABSTRACT An evidence-based systematic review of lutein by the Natural Standard
Research Collaboration consolidates the safety and efficacy data available in the
scientific literature using a validated, reproducible grading rationale. This
article includes written and statistical analysis of clinical trials, plus a
compilation of expert opinion, folkloric precedent, history, pharmacology,
kinetics/dynamics, interactions, adverse effects, toxicology, and dosing.

PMID: 25616151  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


572. J Lipid Res. 2015 Jan 23. pii: jlr.P055418. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of n-3 fatty acid supplementation on the release of pro-resolving lipid
mediators by blood mononuclear cells: the OmegAD study.

Wang X(1), Hjorth E(2), Vedin I(2), Eriksdotter M(2), Freund-Levi Y(2), Wahlund
LO(2), Cederholm T(3), Palmblad J(2), Schultzberg M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Sweden; xiuzhe.wang@ki.se. (2)Karolinska Institutet,
Sweden; (3)Uppsala University, Sweden.

Specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs) play key roles in resolution of
inflammation, and their levels are reduced in Alzheimer's disease (AD). SPMs are 
derivatives of n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), but it is unknown
whether supplementation with PUFAs may influence the release of SPMs in AD
patients. The OmegAD study is a randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled
clinical trial on AD patients. Placebo or a supplement of 1.7 g docosahexaenoic
acid (DHA) and 0.6 g eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) was taken daily for 6 months.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained before and after the
trial, and were incubated with amyloid β40. Plasma levels of arachidonic acid
(AA) were decreased, and DHA and EPA levels increased after 6 months of n-3 FA
treatment. Analysis of the culture medium of PBMCs showed unchanged levels of the
SPMs lipoxin A4 (LXA4) and resolvin D1 (RvD1) after 6 months n-3 PUFA
supplementation, whereas they were decreased in the placebo group. The changes in
SPMs were in line with cognitive changes. There was a positive correlation
between the changes in SPMs and the changes in plasma transtherytin. We conclude 
that supplementation with n-3 PUFAs for 6 months prevented a reduction in SPMs
released from PBMCs of AD patients.

Copyright © 2015, The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

PMID: 25616438  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


573. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2015 Jan 23. pii: jpet.114.221002. [Epub ahead of print]

Cholesteryl Ester-Transfer Protein inhibitors stimulate aldosterone biosynthesis 
in adipocytes through Nox-dependent processes.

Rios FJ(1), Neves KB(2), Nguyen Dinh Cat A(1), Even S(1), Palacios R(1),
Montezano AC(1), Touyz RM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Univ of Glasgow; (2)Univ Sao Paulo. (3)Univ of Glasgow;
rhian.touyz@glasgow.ac.uk.

Hyperaldosteronism and hypertension were unexpected side effects observed in
trials of torcetrapib, a Cholesteryl Ester-Transfer Protein (CETP) inhibitor that
increases HDL. Given that CETP inhibitors are lipid soluble and accumulate in
adipose tissue, have binding sites for proteins involved in adipogenesis and that
adipocytes are a source of aldosterone, we questioned whether CETP inhibitors,
(torcetrapib, dalcetrapib, and anacetrapib) influence aldosterone production by
adipocytes. Studies were performed using human adipocytes (SW872), which express 
CETP, and mouse adipocytes (3T3-L1), which lack CETP gene. Torcetrapib,
dalcetrapib, and anacetrapib increased expression of CYP11B2, CYP11B1, and
Steroidogenic Acute Regulatory Protein (StAR), enzymes involved in
mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid generation. These effects were associated
with increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation. Torcertrapib,
dalcetrapib, and anacetrapib upregulated STAT3 and PPARγ, important in
adipogenesis, but only torcetrapib stimulated production of chemerin, a
pro-inflammatory adipokine. To determine mechanisms whereby CETP inhibitors
mediate effects, cells were pretreated with inhibitors of Nox1/4 (GKT137831),
Nox1 (ML171), mitochondria (rotenone) and STAT3 (S3I-201). In
torcetrapib-stimulated cells, Nox-inhibitors, rotenone and S31-201 downregulated 
CYP11B2 and StAR and reduced aldosterone. Dalcetrapib and anacetrapib effects on 
aldosterone were variably blocked by GKT137831, ML171, rotenone, and S31-201. In 
adipocytes, torcetrapib, dalcetrapib, and anacetrapib inhibit enzymatic pathways 
responsible for aldosterone production through Nox1/4- and
mitochondrial-generated ROS and STAT3. CETP inhibitors also influence adipokine
production. These processes may be CETP-independent. Our findings identify novel 
adipocyte-related mechanisms whereby CETP inhibitors increase aldosterone
production. Such phenomena may contribute to hyperaldosteronism observed in CETP 
inhibitor clinical trials.

The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.

PMID: 25617244  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


574. J Urol. 2015 Jan 23. pii: S0022-5347(15)00168-8. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2015.01.078.
[Epub ahead of print]

Patients with Biopsy Gleason 9 and 10 Prostate Cancer Have Significantly Worse
Outcomes Compared with Gleason 8 Disease.

Tsao CK(1), Gray KP(2), Nakabayashi M(2), Evan C(2), Kantoff PW(2), Huang J(3),
Galsky MD(4), Pomerantz M(2), Oh WK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, The Tisch Cancer Institute, Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Electronic address:
Che-kai.tsao@mssm.edu. (2)Lank Center for Genitourinary Oncology, Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. (3)Department of Pathology,
David Geffen School of Medicine at University California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, CA. (4)Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, The Tisch Cancer
Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY.

PURPOSE: To examine the differences in outcome in patients with biopsy Gleason
score 8 versus 9-10 who received definitive local therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using an institutional database, we identified a cohort of 
847 patients with biopsy Gleason 8-10 disease who received definitive local
therapy with radiation therapy (RT) or radical prostatectomy (RP) between January
2001 and December 2011. Multivariable Cox modeling assessed the association of
Gleason score of 8 versus Gleason 9-10 with time to biochemical recurrence, time 
to metastases, and overall survival, and test for treatment by Gleason score
interaction. Median follow-up of the cohort was 5.3 years.
RESULTS: Baseline patient characteristics were similar between biopsy Gleason 8
versus 9-10. Gleason 9-10 disease was associated with higher PSA at diagnosis;
for local therapy they were also more likely to have received RT (58% vs. 46%,
p=0.001) and neoadjuvant/adjuvant androgen deprivation therapy (64% vs. 49%,
p<0.001). Those with higher-grade disease had increased risk of developing
metastatic disease (HR=1.41, 95%CI: 1.11-1.79). There is a trend toward increased
risk of death (HR=1.28, 95%CI: 0.98-1.66) in Gleason 9-10 compared to those with 
Gleason 8 cancer, with increased risk of death for patients with Gleason 9-10
mainly observed in patients treated with RP whether or not they received
additional RT (HR=1.74, 95%CI: 1.15-2.65).
CONCLUSION: Patients with localized biopsy Gleason 9-10 disease treated with
definitive local therapy had worse outcomes compared to patients diagnosed with
biopsy Gleason 8 disease. Clinical trials incorporating newer approaches to
Gleason 9-10 cancer are urgently needed.

Copyright © 2015 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25623747  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


575. Lasers Med Sci. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Immediate effects of low-intensity laser (808 nm) on fatigue and strength of
spastic muscle.

Dos Reis MC(1), de Andrade EA, Borges AC, de Souza DQ, Lima FP, Nicolau RA,
Andrade AO, Lima MO.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Engenharia de Reabilitação Sensório Motora, Universidade do
Vale do Paraíba, Av. Shishima Hifumi, 2911, Urbanova, SP, 12244-000, Brazil,
mah.crr@gmail.com.

The cerebrovascular accident (CVA), high-impact disease II, affects the basic
functions of the limbs, leading to changes of sensory, language, and motor
functions. The search for resources that minimize the damage caused by this
disease grows every day. The clinical use of low-intensity laser therapy (LILT)
has provided major breakthroughs in the treatment of muscular disorders and
prevention of muscle fatigue. Thus, the objective of the present study is to
analyze the answers and immediate adaptations of the rectus femoris and vastus
medialis of spastic hemiparetic patients, facing the increase in peak torque and 
triggering muscle fatigue, after application of LILT. Double-blind clinical
trials were conducted with 15 volunteers post-CVA with spasticity, of both
genders, between 40 and 80 years old. To this end, the volunteers went through
three consecutive stages of rating (control, placebo, and laser). All performed
tests of isometric contraction on the patient's hemiparetic side. Significant
differences were observed with regard to the increase in muscle performance
(p = 0.0043) and the reduction in blood lactate concentration (p < 0.0001) of the
post-LILT muscles. The LILT (diode laser, l100 mW 808 nm, 4.77 J/cm(2)/point,
40 s/AP) can be employed during and after spastic muscle-strengthening exercises,
contributing to the improvement of motor function of the patient. After
application of LILT, we found increased torque as well as decreased in lactate
level in patients with spasticity.

PMID: 25614133  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


576. Nat Rev Cancer. 2015 Jan 23;15(2):96-109. doi: 10.1038/nrc3893.

S100 proteins in cancer.

Bresnick AR(1), Weber DJ(2), Zimmer DB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris
Park Avenue, Bronx, New York 10461, USA. (2)Center for Biomolecular Therapeutics 
and Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Maryland
School of Medicine, 108 North Greene Street, Baltimore, Maryland 20102, USA.

In humans, the S100 protein family is composed of 21 members that exhibit a high 
degree of structural similarity, but are not functionally interchangeable. This
family of proteins modulates cellular responses by functioning both as
intracellular Ca(2+) sensors and as extracellular factors. Dysregulated
expression of multiple members of the S100 family is a common feature of human
cancers, with each type of cancer showing a unique S100 protein profile or
signature. Emerging in vivo evidence indicates that the biology of most S100
proteins is complex and multifactorial, and that these proteins actively
contribute to tumorigenic processes such as cell proliferation, metastasis,
angiogenesis and immune evasion. Drug discovery efforts have identified leads for
inhibiting several S100 family members, and two of the identified inhibitors have
progressed to clinical trials in patients with cancer. This Review highlights new
findings regarding the role of S100 family members in cancer diagnosis and
treatment, the contribution of S100 signalling to tumour biology, and the
discovery and development of S100 inhibitors for treating cancer.

PMID: 25614008  [PubMed - in process]


577. Neurotherapeutics. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Being PRO-ACTive: What can a Clinical Trial Database Reveal About ALS?

Zach N(1), Ennist DL, Taylor AA, Alon H, Sherman A, Kueffner R, Walker J, Sinani 
E, Katsovskiy I, Cudkowicz M, Leitner ML.

Author information: 
(1)Prize4Life, Tel aviv, Israel, nzach@Prize4Life.org.

Advancing research and clinical care, and conducting successful and
cost-effective clinical trials requires characterizing a given patient
population. To gather a sufficiently large cohort of patients in rare diseases
such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we developed the Pooled Resource
Open-Access ALS Clinical Trials (PRO-ACT) platform. The PRO-ACT database
currently consists of >8600 ALS patient records from 17 completed clinical
trials, and more trials are being incorporated. The database was launched in an
open-access mode in December 2012; since then, >400 researchers from >40
countries have requested the data. This review gives an overview on the research 
enabled by this resource, through several examples of research already carried
out with the goal of improving patient care and understanding the disease. These 
examples include predicting ALS progression, the simulation of future ALS
clinical trials, the verification of previously proposed predictive features, the
discovery of novel predictors of ALS progression and survival, the newly
identified stratification of patients based on their disease progression
profiles, and the development of tools for better clinical trial recruitment and 
monitoring. Results from these approaches clearly demonstrate the value of large 
datasets for developing a better understanding of ALS natural history, prognostic
factors, patient stratification, and more. The increasing use by the community
suggests that further analyses of the PRO-ACT database will continue to reveal
more information about this disease that has for so long defied our
understanding.

PMID: 25613183  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


578. Oncol Res Treat. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Primary Tumor Standardized Uptake Value Predicts Survival in Head and Neck
Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Zhang B(1), Geng J, Nie F, Li X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Shanghai First People's
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.

Background: The purpose of this study was to determine whether the pretreatment
primary tumor standardized uptake value (SUV), as measured by positron emission
tomography (PET), can add prognostic information for predicting survival in
patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Materials and
Methods: 7 articles were identified by searching electronic databases.
Statistical analysis was performed with RevMan 4.2.2. SUV measurement and SUV
threshold for defining high SUV were studied dependently. For each publication,
we first obtained an estimate of the relative risk (RR) for comparing patients
with a low or a high SUV. Subsequently, we aggregated the individual RRs into a
combined RR, using a fixed-effect model. Publication bias was assessed using a
funnel plot. Results: The study included 7 clinical trials dedicated to HNSCC,
involving 674 patients who underwent fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose-PET scanning before
treatment. The combined RR from the 7 reports for the survival was 0.53 (95%
confidence interval: 0.46-0.62). The funnel plot showed symmetrical distribution,
indicating no evidence of any substantial publication bias. Conclusion: Our
meta-analysis indicates that patients with HNSCC who have a primary tumor with a 
high SUV have poor survival; this should be further confirmed in a meta-analysis 
based on individual patient data. © 2015 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg.

PMID: 25633888  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


579. Org Biomol Chem. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

Computational design of novel peptidomimetic inhibitors of cadherin homophilic
interactions.

Doro F(1), Colombo C, Alberti C, Arosio D, Belvisi L, Casagrande C, Fanelli R,
Manzoni L, Parisini E, Piarulli U, Luison E, Figini M, Tomassetti A, Civera M.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica, Università degli Studi di Milano, Via C. Golgi 19,
I-20133, Milan, Italy. monica.civera@unimi.it.

We report a first set of peptidomimetic ligands mimicking the adhesive interface 
identified by recent crystallographic structures of E- and N-cadherin. Compounds 
and inhibit adhesion of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) cells with improved
efficacy compared to the ADH-1 peptide, a N-cadherin antagonist that is in early 
clinical trials in EOC patients.

PMID: 25614037  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


580. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2015 Jan 23;10(1):5. [Epub ahead of print]

A comprehensive database of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy patients (0¿18
years old) in East China.

Li X, Zhao L, Zhou S, Hu C, Shi Y, Shi W, Li H, Liu F, Wu B, Wang Y.

BackgroundCurrently, there is no cure for Duchenne and Becker muscular
dystrophies (DMD/BMD). However, clinical trials with new therapeutic strategies
are being conducted or considered. A comprehensive database is critical for
patient recruitment and efficacy evaluation. China has the largest population,
yet, no comprehensive database for DMD/BMD is available. Our study registered the
data of the DMD/BMD patients in East China.MethodsA modified registry form of
Remudy (http://www.remudy.jp/) was applied to Chinese DMD/BMD patients through
the outpatient clinic at Children¿s Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai during
the period of August 2011 to December 2013. The data included geographic
distribution of patients, age at diagnosis, clinical manifestation, genetic
analysis and treatment status.Results194 DMD and 35 BMD patients were registered.
Most patients lived in East China, namely Jiangsu province, Anhui province,
Zhejiang province, Shanghai, Jiangxi province, Fujian province and Shandong
province. All individuals aged less than 18 years (age limit to a children¿s
hospital). Diagnosis was made for a majority of patients during the age of 3¿4
(16.6%) and 7¿8 (14.8%) years old. Exon deletion was the most frequent genetic
mutations (65.5% and 74.3%) followed by point mutations (14.4% and 11.4%),
duplications (9.8% and 8.6%) and small insertion/deletion (9.3% and 2.9%) for DMD
and BMD, respectively. 82.5% of DMD registrants were ambulatory, and all the BMD 
registrants were able to walk. 26.3% of DMD registrants have been treated with
steroids. Cardiac functions were examined for 46.4% DMD boys and 45.7% BMD boys
and respiratory functions were examined for 18.6% DMD boys and 14.3% BMD boys.
Four boys with abnormal cardiac function were prescribed for treatment with
cardiac medicine. 33.2% of DMD patients are eligible for exon skipping therapy,
and among them 9.2% and 4.3% patients are eligible for skipping exon 51 and 53,
respectively.ConclusionsThe database is the first linking accurate genetic
diagnosis with clinical manifestation and treatment status of dystrophinopathy
patients in East China. It provides comprehensive information essential for
further patient management, especially for promotion of international cooperation
in developing experimental therapies such as exon skipping and read-through of
nonsense mutations targeting a subgroup of DMD patient population.

PMCID: PMC4323212
PMID: 25612904  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


581. Pituitary. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

New potential targets for treatment of Cushing's disease: epithelial growth
factor receptor and cyclin-dependent kinases.

Fukuoka H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Kobe University Hospital, 7-5-2
Kusunoki-cho, Chuo-ku, Kobe, 650-0017, Japan, fukuokah@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Cushing's disease (CD) is caused by adrenocorticotropic hormone
(ACTH)-producing pituitary adenomas (ACTHomas). Drug treatment for CD consists of
three strategies: pituitary tumor-targeted therapy, steroidogenesis inhibitors,
and glucocorticoid receptor antagonists. All of these strategies are under
development, and several new drugs have recently been approved for clinical use
or are being tested in clinical trials. Pituitary-targeted drugs are a
particularly important method in the treatment of CD. Available pituitary
tumor-targeted drugs include a dopamine receptor agonist and a somatostatin
analog. Since disrupted cell cycle signaling is clearly associated with
pathogenesis of ACTHomas which express active forms of epithelial growth factor
receptor (EGFR), cyclins, and the catalytic subunit of cyclin-dependent kinases
(CDKs), we focused on these molecules as therapeutic targets for ACTHomas.
METHODS: In this review, a literature search were performed using PubMed with
following terms; Cushing's disease, EGFR, CDKs, cell cycle, and targeted therapy.
CONCLUSION: Accumulating evidence demonstrates that EGFR and cyclin E-CDK2 may be
promising targets for treating ACTHomas.

PMID: 25612787  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


582. Sci Rep. 2015 Jan 23;5:7992. doi: 10.1038/srep07992.

Brazilin inhibits amyloid β-protein fibrillogenesis, remodels amyloid fibrils and
reduces amyloid cytotoxicity.

Du WJ(1), Guo JJ(1), Gao MT(1), Hu SQ(2), Dong XY(3), Han YF(2), Liu FF(3), Jiang
S(4), Sun Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemical Engineering and Key Laboratory of Systems
Bioengineering of the Ministry of Education, School of Chemical Engineering and
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China. (2)Department of Applied
Biology and Chemical Technology, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong 
SAR, China. (3)1] Department of Biochemical Engineering and Key Laboratory of
Systems Bioengineering of the Ministry of Education, School of Chemical
Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China [2]
Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering (Tianjin),
Tianjin 300072, China. (4)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-1750, USA.

Soluble amyloid β-protein (Aβ) oligomers, the main neurotoxic species, are
predominantly formed from monomers through a fibril-catalyzed secondary
nucleation. Herein, we virtually screened an in-house library of natural
compounds and discovered brazilin as a dual functional compound in both Aβ42
fibrillogenesis inhibition and mature fibril remodeling, leading to significant
reduction in Aβ42 cytotoxicity. The potent inhibitory effect of brazilin was
proven by an IC50 of 1.5 ± 0.3 μM, which was smaller than that of
(-)-epigallocatechin gallate in Phase III clinical trials and about one order of 
magnitude smaller than those of curcumin and resveratrol. Most importantly, it
was found that brazilin redirected Aβ42 monomers and its mature fibrils into
unstructured Aβ aggregates with some β-sheet structures, which could prevent both
the primary nucleation and the fibril-catalyzed secondary nucleation. Molecular
simulations demonstrated that brazilin inhibited Aβ42 fibrillogenesis by directly
binding to Aβ42 species via hydrophobic interactions and hydrogen bonding and
remodeled mature fibrils by disrupting the intermolecular salt bridge Asp23-Lys28
via hydrogen bonding. Both experimental and computational studies revealed a
different working mechanism of brazilin from that of known inhibitors. These
findings indicate that brazilin is of great potential as a neuroprotective and
therapeutic agent for Alzheimer's disease.

PMCID: PMC4303869
PMID: 25613018  [PubMed - in process]


583. Stat Med. 2015 Jan 23. doi: 10.1002/sim.6414. [Epub ahead of print]

On model selections for repeated measurement data in clinical studies.

Zou B(1), Jin B, Koch GG, Zhou H, Borst SE, Menon S, Shuster JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611,
U.S.A.

Repeated measurement designs have been widely used in various randomized
controlled trials for evaluating long-term intervention efficacies. For some
clinical trials, the primary research question is how to compare two treatments
at a fixed time, using a t-test. Although simple, robust, and convenient, this
type of analysis fails to utilize a large amount of collected information.
Alternatively, the mixed-effects model is commonly used for repeated measurement 
data. It models all available data jointly and allows explicit assessment of the 
overall treatment effects across the entire time spectrum. In this paper, we
propose an analytic strategy for longitudinal clinical trial data where the
mixed-effects model is coupled with a model selection scheme. The proposed test
statistics not only make full use of all available data but also utilize the
information from the optimal model deemed for the data. The performance of the
proposed method under various setups, including different data missing
mechanisms, is evaluated via extensive Monte Carlo simulations. Our numerical
results demonstrate that the proposed analytic procedure is more powerful than
the t-test when the primary interest is to test for the treatment effect at the
last time point. Simulations also reveal that the proposed method outperforms the
usual mixed-effects model for testing the overall treatment effects across time. 
In addition, the proposed framework is more robust and flexible in dealing with
missing data compared with several competing methods. The utility of the proposed
method is demonstrated by analyzing a clinical trial on the cognitive effect of
testosterone in geriatric men with low baseline testosterone levels. Copyright © 
2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 25645442  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


584. Urol Oncol. 2015 Jan 23. pii: S1078-1439(14)00467-0. doi:
10.1016/j.urolonc.2014.12.014. [Epub ahead of print]

A primer on clinical trial design.

Ellimoottil C(1), Vijan S(2), Flanigan RC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Loyola University Medical Center, Department of Urology, Maywood, IL.
Electronic address: cellimoo@med.umich.edu. (2)Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. (3)Loyola University Medical Center,
Department of Urology, Maywood, IL.

A well-designed and executed clinical trial is the gold standard of
evidence-based medicine. It is important for readers to understand the rationale 
for the study design, identify common pitfalls, and scrutinize limitations.
Herein, we present a brief overview of types of designs used for clinical trials 
and discuss the use of appropriate end points, the selection of study
participants, randomization, sample size calculation, blinding, and analysis of
data. Finally, we emphasize the importance of accurate and transparent reporting.
Our goal is to provide a primer for practicing urologists to enhance their
understanding of the clinical trial literature.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25624092  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


585. Z Rheumatol. 2015 Jan 23. [Epub ahead of print]

[Enthesitis in the context of spondyloarthritides.]

[Article in German]

Haibel H(1), Sieper J.

Author information: 
(1)Rheumatologie, Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin,
Hindenburgdamm 30, 12200, Berlin, Deutschland, hildrun.haibel@charite.de.

Enthesitis is a frequent manifestation in spondyloarthritis (SpA) and psoriatic
arthritis (PsA) and can be found in up to 40 % of patients with SpA. Because of
the pathognomonic relevance the classification criteria for SpA and PsA use
enthesitis as an entrance or secondary criterion. Enthesitis is most frequently
localized at the heel but it can occur at any insertion of an enthesis into the
bone. When diagnosing enthesitis differential diagnoses should be considered,
mechanical-degenerative causes and fibromyalgia in particular should be excluded.
The imaging techniques power Doppler ultrasound (PDUS) and magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) are most helpful in making the diagnosis. The therapeutic options
for enthesitis are limited. Nonsteroidal antirheumatic drugs (NSARD) and local
injections of corticosteroids are recommended. In small clinical trials no
efficacy of disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) could be demonstrated. 
In contrast, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) blockers were shown to be
highly effective in randomized controlled trials for SpA and PsA but they are not
currently approved for enthesitis only.

PMID: 25608675  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


586. Analyst. 2015 Jan 22. [Epub ahead of print]

Spectropathology for the next generation: Quo vadis?

Byrne HJ(1), Baranska M, Puppels GJ, Stone N, Wood B, Gough KM, Lasch P, Heraud
P, Sulé-Suso J, Sockalingum GD.

Author information: 
(1)FOCAS Research Institute, Dublin Institute of Technology, Kevin Street, Dublin
8, Ireland. hugh.byrne@dit.ie.

Although the potential of vibrational spectroscopy for biomedical applications
has been well demonstrated, translation into clinical practice has been
relatively slow. This Editorial assesses the challenges facing the field and the 
potential way forward. While many technological challenges have been addressed to
date, considerable effort is still required to gain acceptance of the techniques 
among the medical community, standardise protocols, extend to a clinically
relevant scale, and ultimately assess the health economics underlying clinical
deployment. National and international research networks can contribute much to
technology development and standardisation. Ultimately, large-scale funding is
required to engage in clinical trials and instrument development.

PMID: 25610920  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


587. Ann Med. 2015 Jan 22:1-13. [Epub ahead of print]

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: An update.

Spagnolo P(1), Sverzellati N, Rossi G, Cavazza A, Tzouvelekis A, Crestani B,
Vancheri C.

Author information: 
(1)Medical University Clinic, Canton Hospital Baselland, and University of Basel 
, Switzerland.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common and lethal form of
idiopathic interstitial pneumonia. The disease, which occurs primarily in
middle-aged and older adults, is thought to arise following an aberrant
reparative response to alveolar epithelial cell injury characterized by secretion
of excessive amounts of extracellular matrix components, resulting in scarring of
the lung, architectural distortion, and irreversible loss of function. A complex 
interplay between environmental and host factors is thought to contribute to the 
development of the disease, although the cause of IPF remains elusive and its
pathogenesis incompletely understood. Over the last decade, disease definition
and diagnostic criteria have evolved significantly, and this has facilitated the 
design of a number of high-quality clinical trials evaluating novel therapeutic
agents for IPF. This massive effort of the medical and industry community has led
to the identification of two compounds (pirfenidone and nintedanib) able to
reduce functional decline and disease progression. These promising results
notwithstanding, IPF remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality and a
largely unmet medical need. A real cure for this devastating disease has yet to
emerge and will likely consist of a combination of drugs targeting the plethora
of pathways potentially involved in disease pathogenesis.

PMID: 25613170  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


588. Ann Med. 2015 Jan 22:1-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Pharmacologic therapies for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, past and future.

Staitieh BS(1), Renzoni EA, Veeraraghavan S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy & Critical Care
Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine , Atlanta, GA 30322 , USA.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a severe, progressive fibrotic disease of 
the lung of unknown etiology that affects approximately 150,000 patients in the
United States. It carries a median survival of two to three years, but clinical
course can vary markedly from patient to patient. There has been no established
treatment for IPF, but recent advances in coordinated clinical trials through
groups such as IPFnet and academia-industry partnerships have allowed this
relatively rare disease to be studied in much greater depth. Historically, the
default therapy for IPF was a combination of prednisone, N-acetylcysteine, and
azathioprine, but recent trials have shown that this regimen actually increases
mortality. An enormous body of work in recent years, spanning the bench to the
bedside, has radically altered our understanding of the molecular mechanisms
underlying IPF. Newer modalities, particularly those involving monoclonal
antibodies targeted at specific pathways known to contribute to the fibrotic
process, have generated a great deal of excitement in the field, and recent
clinical trials on therapies such as pirfenidone and nintedanib herald a new era 
in targeted IPF therapies.

PMID: 25613169  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


589. Ann Pharmacother. 2015 Jan 22. pii: 1060028014568550. [Epub ahead of print]

The Safety and Efficacy of Target-Specific Anticoagulants in Patients With Venous
Thromboembolism.

Lekura J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI, USA jlekura1@hfhs.org.

OBJECTIVE: To review the role of target-specific anticoagulants (TSACs) for the
treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and their associated efficacy and
safety.
DATA SOURCES: Peer-reviewed clinical trials, review articles, and relevant
treatment guidelines were identified from MEDLINE (1966 to November 2014) using
the following search terms: venous thromboembolism, vitamin K antagonist (VKA),
target-specific anticoagulant, deep-vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism. Results 
were limited to human trials published in English. Citations from articles were
reviewed for additional references.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Clinical trials evaluating VTE treatment
were included. Trials that evaluated alternative end points were excluded.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Patients with VTE have a high risk of developing recurrent events
and subsequent death if not treated in an appropriate manner. TSACs have been
evaluated in several large clinical trials in patients with acute VTE. These
trials have shown positive outcomes when compared with VKAs for treatment of VTE 
in the general population. Paralleled with these results, TSACs had similar or
lower rates of bleeding compared with VKAs.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, available evidence suggests that TSACs produce
similar clinical benefits with less bleeding incidence when compared with VKAs in
the treatment of VTE. There are significant differences between each study
investigating this class of medication for VTE treatment. Each TSAC has potential
advantages, and to date, there has been no head-to-head trial comparing them.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25614527  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


590. Blood. 2015 Jan 22. pii: blood-2014-09-599423. [Epub ahead of print]

γδ T cell reconstitution after HLA-haploidentical hematopoietic transplantation
depleted of TCR-αβ+/CD19+ lymphocytes.

Airoldi I(1), Bertaina A(2), Prigione I(3), Zorzoli A(3), Pagliara D(2), Cocco
C(3), Meazza R(4), Loiacono F(5), Lucarelli B(2), Bernardo ME(2), Barbarito G(3),
Pende D(4), Moretta A(6), Pistoia V(3), Moretta L(7), Locatelli F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di Oncologia, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico 
(IRCCS) Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genova, Italy;
irmaairoldi@ospedale-gaslini.ge.it. (2)Department of Pediatric Hematology and
Oncology, IRCCS Bambino Gesu Children's Hospital, Rome, Italy; (3)Laboratorio di 
Oncologia, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS) Istituto
Giannina Gaslini, Genova, Italy; (4)IRCCS, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria San 
Martino - Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, Genova, Italy; (5)Core
Facilities, Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genova, Italy; (6)Dipartimento di Medicina
Sperimentale and Centro di Eccellenza per la Ricerca Biomedica, Universita di
Genova, Genova, Italy; (7)Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genova, Italy.

We prospectively assessed functional and phenotypic characteristics of γδ T
lymphocytes up to 7 months after HLA-haploidentical hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation (haplo-HSCT) depleted of αβ(+) T cells and CD19(+) B cells in 27 
children with either malignant or non-malignant disorders. We demonstrate that:
i) γδ T cells are the predominant T-cell population in patients during the first 
weeks after transplantation, being mainly, albeit not only, derived from cells
infused with the graft and expanding in vivo, ii) central-memory cells
predominated very early post-transplantation for both Vδ1 and Vδ2 subsets; iii)
Vδ1 cells are specifically expanded in patients experiencing cytomegalovirus
reactivation and are more cytotoxic compared to those of children who did not
experience reactivation; iv) these subsets display a cytotoxic phenotype and
degranulate when challenged with primary acute myeloid and lymphoid leukemia
blasts; v) Vδ2 cells are expanded in vitro after exposure to zoledronic acid and 
efficiently lyse primary lymphoid and myeloid blasts. This is the first detailed 
characterization of γδ T cells emerging in peripheral blood of children after
CD19(+) B- and αβ(+) T-cell depleted haplo-HSCT. Our results can be instrumental 
to the development of clinical trials using zoledronic acid for improving γδ
T-cell killing capacity against leukemia cells.

Copyright © 2015 American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 25612623  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


591. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 22. doi: 10.1111/bcp.12591. [Epub ahead of print]

Therapeutic antibodies against CGRP or its receptor.

Bigal ME(1), Walter S, Rapoport AM.

Author information: 
(1)Migraine & Headache Clinical Development, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Frazer, PA,
USA; Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY,
USA.

CGRP is an extensively studied neuropeptide that has been implicated in the
pathophysiology of migraine. While a number of small molecule antagonists against
the CGRP receptor have demonstrated that targeting this pathway is a valid and
effective way of treating migraine, off-target hepatoxicity and formulation
issues have hampered the development for regulatory approval of any therapeutic
in this class. The development of monoclonal antibodies to CGRP or its receptor
as therapeutic agents has allowed this pathway to be re-investigated. Herein we
review why CGRP is an ideal target for the prevention of migraine and describe
four monoclonal antibodies against either CGRP or its receptor that are in
clinical development for the treatment of both episodic and chronic migraine. We 
describe what has been publically disclosed about their clinical trials and
future clinical development plans.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25614243  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


592. Br J Psychiatry. 2015 Jan 22. pii: bjp.bp.113.135780. [Epub ahead of print]

The ACCESS study: Zelen randomised controlled trial of a package of care for
people presenting to hospital after self-harm.

Hatcher S(1), Sharon C(1), House A(1), Collins N(1), Collings S(1), Pillai A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Simon Hatcher, MBBS, MD, Department of Psychiatry, University of Ottawa,
Ottawa, Canada; Cynthia Sharon, MSc, University of Auckland, Auckland, New
Zealand; Allan House, MBBS, DM, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK; Nicola Collins,
University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand; Sunny Collings, MBChB, PhD,
University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand; Avinesh Pillai, MSc, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

Background The problem of people presenting to hospitals with self-harm is
important because such presentations are common, there is a clear link to suicide
and a high premature mortality. However, the best treatment for this population
is unclear. Aims To see whether a package of measures, that included regular
postcards and problem-solving therapy, improved outcomes at 1 year compared with 
usual care in people who presented to hospital with self-harm (the ACCESS study: 
trial registration Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry
ACTRN12609000641291). Method The design of the study was a Zelen randomised
controlled trial. The primary outcome was re-presentation to hospital with
self-harm within 12 months of the index episode. Results There were no
significant differences in the primary outcome and most of the secondary outcomes
between the two groups. About half the people offered problem-solving therapy did
not receive it, for various reasons. Conclusions The package as offered had
little effect on the proportion of people re-presenting to hospital with
self-harm. The dose of problem-solving therapy may have been too small to have an
effect and there was a difficulty engaging participants in active treatment.

Royal College of Psychiatrists.

PMID: 25614531  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


593. Breast Cancer. 2015 Jan 22. [Epub ahead of print]

Perspective for the development of companion diagnostics and regulatory landscape
to encourage personalized medicine in Japan.

Tazawa Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Roche Diagnostics K.K., Tokyo, Japan, yoshiaki.tazawa@roche.cm.

BACKGROUND: On July 1st, 2013, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW)
issued an official notification regarding the co-development of companion
diagnostics (CDx) with a drug which requires any exclusive diagnostic test or
medical device to predict efficacy or adverse reactions to the drug. The main
frame and contents in the MHLW's notification are quite similar to the summaries 
in the final guidance issued by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on
August 6th, 2014 Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff (In
Vitro Companion Diagnostic Devices, [2014] ), and these recommend industries to
develop, study and submit CDx and the corresponding drug contemporaneously as
much as possible. Following the MHLW's notification, the Pharmaceutical and
Medical Device Agency (PMDA) notified on December 26th, 2013, "the technical
guidance for co-development of CDx and the drug" that mentioned the regulatory
requirements for clinical trial of the drug and CDx as well as analytical
validity of CDx required for the trials. These official notifications from the
Ministry and the Agency may be useful for pharmaceutical and diagnostics makers
to understand how they should co-develop and validate CDx for clinical trials and
regulatory submission. However, since the most anticipated technologies such as
the next generation sequencer (NGS) are more complex and its medical risks could 
be high level, the existing regulatory system focusing on only diagnostics
reagents and devices that are developed and manufactured by in vitro diagnostics 
(IVD) makers may be no longer suitable for the characteristics of CDx for the
future.As an increase of clinical needs for multiple biomarkers assay by DNA
sequencer, on November 19th, 2013, the FDA cleared 510 K for NGS and its
universal kit. On October 3rd, 2014, moreover, the agency notified two drafts of 
guidance (Anticipated Details of the Draft Guidance for Industry, Food and Drug
Administration Staff, and Clinical Laboratory in Framework for Regulatory
Oversight of Laboratory Developed Tests (LDTs), [2014]; Anticipated Details of
the Draft Guidance for Industry, Food and Drug Administration Staff, and Clinical
Laboratory in FDA Notification and Medical Device Reporting for Laboratory
Developed Tests (LDT), [2014]) for oversight of laboratory developed tests (LDTs)
with medium or high medical risks. These FDA's strategic decisions and new
regulatory frameworks may allow the clinical laboratories to develop and perform 
more easily NGS-based CDx under the certification of Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments (CLIA). However, neither law nor regulated quality
management system similar to the CLIA exists in Japan. To effectively validate
LDTs and NGS for medical practice, Japan should learn more the current regulatory
changes and initiatives in the US, as well as to reform the regulatory frameworks
and create any regulated quality management system for clinical laboratory
testing to be reimbursed.

PMID: 25605056  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


594. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 22;1:CD011241. [Epub ahead of print]

Zonisamide for neuropathic pain in adults.

Moore RA(1), Wiffen PJ, Derry S, Lunn MP.

Author information: 
(1)Pain Research and Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences (Nuffield
Division of Anaesthetics), University of Oxford, Pain Research Unit, Churchill
Hospital, Oxford, Oxfordshire, UK, OX3 7LE.

BACKGROUND: Antiepileptic drugs have been used in pain management since the
1960s; some have shown efficacy in treating different neuropathic pain
conditions. The efficacy of zonisamide for the relief of neuropathic pain has not
previously been reviewed.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the analgesic efficacy and associated adverse events of
zonisamide for chronic neuropathic pain in adults.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
(CENTRAL) (via CRSO), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and two clinical trials databases
(ClinicalTrials.gov. and the World Health Organisation Clinical Trials Registry
Platform) to 1 August 2014, together with reference lists of retrieved papers and
reviews.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised, double-blind studies of at least two 
weeks' duration comparing zonisamide with placebo or another active treatment in 
chronic neuropathic pain. Participants were adults aged 18 and over. We included 
only full journal publication articles and clinical trial summaries.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted efficacy
and adverse event data, and examined issues of study quality. We considered the
evidence using three tiers. First tier evidence derived from data meeting current
best standards and subject to minimal risk of bias (outcome equivalent to
substantial pain intensity reduction, intention-to-treat analysis without
imputation for dropouts; at least 200 participants in the comparison, 8 to 12
weeks duration, parallel design); second tier evidence derived from data that
failed to meet one or more of these criteria and were considered at some risk of 
bias but with adequate numbers in the comparison; and third tier evidence derived
from data involving small numbers of participants that were considered very
likely to be biased or used outcomes of limited clinical utility, or both.We
planned to calculate risk ratio (RR) and numbers needed to treat (NNT) and harm
(NNH) for one additional event using standard methods expected by The Cochrane
Collaboration.
MAIN RESULTS: We included a single study treating 25 participants (13 zonisamide,
12 placebo) with painful diabetic neuropathy over 12 weeks. No first or second
tier evidence was available for any outcome. The small size of the study and
potential major bias due to a high proportion of early study withdrawals with
zonisamide precluded any conclusions being drawn. There were two serious adverse 
events (one death) in zonisamide-treated participants, which were apparently not 
related to treatment.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The review found a lack of evidence suggesting that
zonisamide provides pain relief in any neuropathic pain condition. Effective
medicines with much greater supportive evidence are available.

PMID: 25612256  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


595. Eur Respir J. 2015 Jan 22. pii: ERJ-01463-2014. [Epub ahead of print]

Unified baseline and longitudinal mortality prediction in idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis.

Ley B(1), Bradford WZ(2), Weycker D(3), Vittinghoff E(4), du Bois RM(5), Collard 
HR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA,
USA brett.ley@ucsf.edu. (2)InterMune Inc., Brisbane, CA, USA. (3)Policy Analysis 
Inc. (PAI), Brookline, MA, USA. (4)Dept of Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. (5)Imperial
College, London, UK. (6)Dept of Medicine, University of California San Francisco,
San Francisco, CA, USA.

The GAP (Gender-Age-Physiology) model is a validated, baseline-risk prediction
model for mortality in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Longitudinal variables have
been shown to contribute to risk prediction in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and 
may improve the predictive performance of the baseline GAP model. Our aims were
to further validate the GAP model and evaluate whether the addition of
longitudinal variables improves its predictive performance. The study population 
was derived from a large clinical trials cohort of patients with idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis (n=1109). Model performance was determined by improvement in
the C-statistic, net reclassification improvement, clinical net reclassification 
improvement, and a goodness-of-fit test. The GAP model had good discriminative
performance with a C-statistic of 0.757 (95% CI 0.750-0.764). However, the
original GAP model tended to overestimate risk in this cohort. A novel, easy to
use model, consisting of the original GAP predictors plus history of respiratory 
hospitalisation and 24-week change in forced vital capacity (the longitudinal GAP
model) improved model performance with a C-statistic of 0.785 (95% CI
0.780-0.790), net reclassification improvement of 8.5%, clinical net
reclassification improvement of 25%, and a goodness-of-fit test of 0.929. The
Longitudinal GAP model, along with the original GAP model, may unify baseline and
longitudinal mortality risk prediction in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

Copyright ©ERS 2015.

PMID: 25614172  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


596. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2015 Jan 22;12(2):1174-95. doi:
10.3390/ijerph120201174.

Preventing Obesity in the Military Community (POMC): The Development of a
Clinical Trials Research Network.

Spieker EA(1,)(2,)(3), Sbrocco T(4), Theim KR(5,)(6), Maurer D(7), Johnson D(8), 
Bryant E(9), Bakalar JL(10,)(11), Schvey NA(12,)(13), Ress R(14,)(15), Seehusen
D(16), Klein DA(17), Stice E(18), Yanovski JA(19), Chan L(20), Gentry S(21),
Ellsworth C(22), Hill JW(23), Tanofsky-Kraff M(24,)(19), Stephens MB(25).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Madigan Army Medical Center, 9040 Fitzsimmons
Avenue, Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Tacoma, WA 98431, USA.
elena.a.spieker.ctr@mail.mil. (2)Department of Medical and Clinical Psychology,
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. elena.a.spieker.ctr@mail.mil. (3)The Henry M. Jackson
Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, Inc., 6720A Rockledge Dr.,
Bethesda, MD 20817, USA. elena.a.spieker.ctr@mail.mil. (4)Department of Medical
and Clinical Psychology, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences,
4301 Jones Bridge Road, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. tracy.sbrocco@usuhs.edu.
(5)Department of Medical and Clinical Psychology, Uniformed Services University
of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge Road, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.
kelly.theim.ctr@usuhs.edu. (6)The Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement
of Military Medicine, Inc., 6720A Rockledge Dr., Bethesda, MD 20817, USA.
kelly.theim.ctr@usuhs.edu. (7)Department of Family Medicine, Madigan Army Medical
Center, 9040 Fitzsimmons Avenue, Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Tacoma, WA 98431, USA.
douglas.m.maurer.mil@mail.mil. (8)Department of Medical and Clinical Psychology, 
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. dawn.johnson@usuhs.edu. (9)Department of Medical and
Clinical Psychology, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 4301
Jones Bridge Road, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. edny.joseph@usuhs.edu. (10)Department
of Medical and Clinical Psychology, Uniformed Services University of the Health
Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge Road, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.
Jennifer.bakalar@usuhs.edu. (11)The Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the
Advancement of Military Medicine, Inc., 6720A Rockledge Dr., Bethesda, MD 20817, 
USA. Jennifer.bakalar@usuhs.edu. (12)Department of Medical and Clinical
Psychology, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones
Bridge Road, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. natasha.schvey.ctr@usuhs.edu. (13)The Henry
M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, Inc., 6720A
Rockledge Dr., Bethesda, MD 20817, USA. natasha.schvey.ctr@usuhs.edu.
(14)Department of Medical and Clinical Psychology, Uniformed Services University 
of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge Road, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.
rachel.ress.ctr@usuhs.edu. (15)The Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the
Advancement of Military Medicine, Inc., 6720A Rockledge Dr., Bethesda, MD 20817, 
USA. rachel.ress.ctr@usuhs.edu. (16)Department of Family and Community Medicine, 
Nelson Hall, Fort Gordon, GA 30905, USA. Dean.A.Seehusen.mil@health.mil.
(17)Department of Family Medicine, Fort Belvoir Community Hospital, 9300 DeWitt
Loop, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060, USA. david.a.klein26.mil@mail.mil. (18)Oregon
Research Institute, 1776 Millrace Dr., Eugene, OR 97403, USA. estice@ori.org.
(19)Section on Growth and Obesity, Program in Developmental Endocrinology and
Genetics, Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human
Development, National Institutes of Health, DHHS, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
yanovskj@mail.nih.gov. (20)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Naval
Hospital Camp Lejeune, 100 Brewster Blvd., Camp Lejeune, NC 28547, USA.
Linda.Chan@med.navy.mil. (21)Department of Family Medicine, Naval Hospital Camp
Lejeune, 100 Brewster Blvd., Camp Lejeune, NC 28547, USA.
shari.gentry@med.navy.mil. (22)Department of Family Medicine, Naval Hospital Camp
Lejeune, 100 Brewster Blvd., Camp Lejeune, NC 28547, USA.
carol.ellsworth@med.navy.mil. (23)Department of Research, Naval Hospital Camp
Lejeune, 100 Brewster Blvd., Camp Lejeune, NC 28547, USA.
Joanne.Hill@med.navy.mil. (24)Department of Medical and Clinical Psychology,
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. yanovskj@mail.nih.gov. (25)Department of Family
Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge
Road, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. mark.stephens@usuhs.edu.

Obesity impacts the U.S. military by affecting the health and readiness of active
duty service members and their families. Preventing Obesity in Military
Communities (POMC) is a comprehensive research program within Patient Centered
Medical Homes (PCMHs) in three Military Training Facilities. This paper describes
three pilot randomized controlled trials that target critical high risk periods
for unhealthy weight gain from birth to young adulthood: (1) pregnancy and early 
infancy (POMC-Mother-Baby), (2) adolescence (POMC-Adolescent), and (3) the first 
tour of duty after boot camp (POMC-Early Career). Each study employs a two-group 
randomized treatment or prevention program with follow up. POMC offers a unique
opportunity to bring together research and clinical expertise in obesity
prevention to develop state-of-the-art programs within PCMHs in Military Training
Facilities. This research builds on existing infrastructure that is expected to
have immediate clinical benefits to DoD and far-reaching potential for ongoing
collaborative work. POMC may offer an economical approach for widespread obesity 
prevention, from conception to young adulthood, in the U.S. military as well as
in civilian communities.

PMID: 25648176  [PubMed - in process]


597. J Addict Med. 2015 Jan 22. [Epub ahead of print]

Methadone and Buprenorphine for Opioid Dependence During Pregnancy: A
Retrospective Cohort Study.

Meyer MC(1), Johnston AM, Crocker AM, Heil SH.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences (MCM),
Department of Pediatrics (AMJ), Department of Mathematics and Statistics (AMC),
and Departments of Psychiatry and Psychology (SHH), University of Vermont,
Burlington, VT.

OBJECTIVES:: To compare maternal characteristics, prenatal care, and newborn
outcomes in a cohort of opioid-dependent pregnant women treated with methadone
versus buprenorphine.
METHODS:: In a retrospective cohort study, 609 pregnant, opioid-dependent women
were treated with methadone (n = 248) or buprenorphine (n = 361) between 2000 and
2012 at a single institution.
RESULTS:: Mothers treated with buprenorphine were more likely to start medication
before or earlier in pregnancy, had longer gestation, and gave birth to larger
infants. Newborns of buprenorphine- versus methadone-maintained mothers required 
treatment for neonatal abstinence significantly less often and for a shorter
duration.
CONCLUSIONS:: These data suggest pregnancy outcomes with buprenorphine to treat
opioid dependence during pregnancy in clinical practice are as good and often
better than outcomes with methadone. These results are consistent with efficacy
data from randomized clinical trials and further support the use of buprenorphine
for the treatment of opioid dependence during pregnancy.

PMID: 25622120  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


598. J Chromatogr Sci. 2015 Jan 22. pii: bmu219. [Epub ahead of print]

Validated LC-MS/MS Assay for the Quantitative Determination of Fimasartan in
Human Plasma: Application to Pharmacokinetic Studies.

Yoon SH(1), Oh S(1), Kim HS(1), Yi S(1), Yu KS(1), Jang IJ(1), Cho JY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Seoul National
University College of Medicine and Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Seoul National
University College of Medicine and Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea
joocho@snu.ac.kr.

A simple, rapid and sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry
(LC-MS/MS) method for the quantification of a newly developed antihypertensive
agent fimasartan (BR-A657, Kanarb(®)) in human plasma was developed and
validated. Fimasartan and internal standard (IS, BR-A563) were extracted by
simple protein precipitation using acetonitrile and separated on a Phenyl-Hexyl
column (Luna(®), 5 µm, 50 mm × 2.0 mm, Phenomenex) under the gradient conditions 
of mobile phase A (distilled water with 0.1% formic acid) and mobile phase B
(100% acetonitrile with 0.1% formic acid) at a flow rate of 0.25 mL/min.
Detection and quantification were performed by the mass spectrometer using
multiple reaction monitoring mode at m/z 500.2 → 221.2 for fimasartan and m/z
524.3 → 204.9 for the IS. The assay was linear over a calibration range of
0.5-500 ng/mL with a lower limit of quantification of 0.5 ng/mL. The coefficient 
of variation of this assay precision was <14.9% and the accuracy exceeded 91.9%. 
This method provided the necessary sensitivity, linearity, precision, accuracy
and specificity to allow the determination of fimasartan after oral
administration to healthy Korean male volunteers in several drug-drug interaction
studies conducted at the Clinical Trials Center of Seoul National University
Hospital.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25616988  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


599. J Pediatr Oncol Nurs. 2015 Jan 22. pii: 1043454214564189. [Epub ahead of print]

Harnessing Technology to Enhance Delivery of Clinical Trials Education for
Nurses: A Report From the Children's Oncology Group.

Haugen M(1), Gasber E(2), Leonard M(3), Landier W(4).

Author information: 
(1)Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital, Chicago, IL, USA
mhaugen@luriechildrens.org. (2)Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital,
Chicago, IL, USA. (3)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. (4)City of
Hope, Duarte, CA, USA.

The challenge of providing high-quality, relevant, time-sensitive continuing
nursing education is particularly salient in pediatric oncology, where nurses
commonly deliver complex protocol-based care to children enrolled on clinical
trials. The Children's Oncology Group Nursing Discipline developed Portable
Document Format multimedia modules to make a broad range of educational content
regarding pediatric oncology clinical trials available to its membership. This
time-sensitive educational content is accessible to nurses via asynchronous
online education. To assess awareness of and user experience with the multimedia 
modules, a survey was conducted of nurses attending a Children's Oncology Group
meeting. Over half (57%) of nurses were aware of the modules and half of those
(51%) had viewed at least 1 module. Over 90% of nurses who viewed the modules
were satisfied or very satisfied with the viewing experience; nurses younger than
age 40 were 4 times more likely to be unaware of the modules than were older
nurses (P = .007).

© 2015 by Association of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Nurses.

PMID: 25612836  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


600. J Pharm Pract. 2015 Jan 22. pii: 0897190014566315. [Epub ahead of print]

Luminal Toxin-Binding Agents for Clostridium difficile Infection.

McCoy RM(1), Klick A(2), Hill S(3), Dull RB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Creighton University School of Pharmacy and Health Professions, Omaha, NE, USA
RyanMcCoy@Creighton.edu. (2)Creighton University School of Pharmacy and Health
Professions, Omaha, NE, USA. (3)Ross University School of Medicine and School of 
Veterinary Medicine, Roseau, Commonwealth of Dominica, West Indies.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically search the literature for trials evaluating luminal 
toxin-binding agents (LTBAs) for Clostridium difficile infection (CDI).
METHODS: A systematic search was conducted utilizing PubMed and International
Pharmaceutical Abstracts with the following terms: anion-exchange resins, C
difficile, cholestyramine, tolevamer, and colestipol. Articles were included if
published in the English language and reported clinical outcomes of more than 5
adult humans with CDI treated with LTBAs.
RESULTS: Nearly all clinical trials evaluated LTBA as monotherapy for CDI and
LTBAs are inferior to standard therapy. In contemporary practice, LTBAs are
employed as adjunctive or sequential therapy for which there is a paucity of
data. Some data suggest potential efficacy for recurrent CDI. Current guidelines 
for CDI assert LTBAs are contraindicated due to drug-drug interactions with
vancomycin. However, the impact of this interaction on clinical outcomes has not 
been evaluated, and it is unknown whether higher doses of vancomycin or
separating the administration of LTBAs from vancomycin would mitigate this
interaction.
CONCLUSION: LTBA monotherapy is inferior to vancomycin and metronidazole for CDI.
Some data indicate possible benefit in reducing recurrent CDI, but outcomes with 
adjunctive and/or sequential LTBAs are unavailable. Further studies are needed to
investigate the role of LTBAs for CDI.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25613056  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


601. Mol Biosyst. 2015 Jan 22. [Epub ahead of print]

Understanding the binding of inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases by molecular
docking, quantum mechanical calculations, molecular dynamics simulations, and a
MMGBSA/MMBappl study.

Singh T(1), Adekoya OA, Jayaram B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology, Hauz Khas, New
Delhi-110016, India. bjayaram@chemistry.iitd.ac.in.

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) consist of a class of proteins required for
normal tissue function. Their over expression is associated with many disease
states and hence the interest in MMPs as drug targets. Almost all MMP inhibitors 
have been reported to fail in clinical trials due to lack of specificity. Zinc in
the binding site of metalloproteinases performs essential biological functions
and contributes to the binding affinity of inhibitors. The multiple possibilities
for coordination geometry and the consequent charge on the zinc atom indicate
that parameters developed are not directly transferable across different families
of zinc metalloproteinases with different zinc coordination geometries, active
sites and ligand architectures which makes it difficult to evaluate metal-ligand 
interactions. In order to assist in drug design endeavors for MMP targets, a
computationally tractable pathway is presented, comprising docking of small
molecule inhibitors against the target MMPs, derivation of quantum mechanical
charges on the zinc ion in the active site and the amino acids coordinating with 
zinc including the inhibitor molecule, molecular dynamics simulations on the
docked ligand-MMP complexes and evaluation of binding affinities of the
ligand-MMP complexes via an accurate scoring function for zinc containing
metalloprotein-ligand complexes. The above pathway was applied to study the
interaction of inhibitor Batimastat with MMPs, which resulted in a high
correlation between the predicted binding free energies and experiment,
suggesting the potential applicability of the pathway. We then proceeded to
formulate a few design principles which identify the key protein residues for
generating molecules with high affinity and specificity against each of the MMPs.

PMID: 25611160  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


602. Nutrients. 2015 Jan 22;7(2):764-84. doi: 10.3390/nu7020764.

Intestinal Microbial Dysbiosis and Colonic Epithelial Cell Hyperproliferation by 
Dietary α-Mangostin is Independent of Mouse Strain.

Gutierrez-Orozco F(1), Thomas-Ahner JM(2), Galley JD(3), Bailey MT(4), Clinton
SK(5), Lesinski GB(6), Failla ML(7).

Author information: 
(1)Human Nutrition Program, Department of Human Sciences, The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. Gutierrez-Orozco.1@osu.edu. (2)Food
Innovation Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
Jennifer.Thomas-Ahner@osumc.edu. (3)Food Innovation Center, The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. Galley.2@osu.edu. (4)Food Innovation Center,
The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. Michael.Bailey@osumc.edu.
(5)Human Nutrition Program, Department of Human Sciences, The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. Steven.Clinton@osumc.edu. (6)Human Nutrition
Program, Department of Human Sciences, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH
43210, USA. Gregory.Lesinski@osumc.edu. (7)Human Nutrition Program, Department of
Human Sciences, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
failla.3@osu.edu.

Beverages and supplements prepared from mangosteen fruit are claimed to support
gut health and immunity, despite the absence of supporting evidence from clinical
trials. We recently reported that α-mangostin (α-MG), the most abundant xanthone 
in mangosteen fruit, altered the intestinal microbiome, promoted dysbiosis, and
exacerbated colitis in C57BL/6J mice. The objective of this study was to
determine whether induction of dysbiosis by dietary α-MG is limited to the
C57BL/6J strain or represents a more generic response to chronic intake of the
xanthone on the gut microbiota of mice. C3H, Balb/c, Nude FoxN1nu, and C57BL/6J
mice, each demonstrating unique microbiomes, were fed standard diet or diet
containing 0.1% α-MG for four weeks. Dietary α-MG significantly altered the cecal
and colonic microbiota in all four strains of mice, promoting a reduction in
generally assumed beneficial bacterial groups while increasing the abundance of
pathogenic bacteria. Consumption of α-MG was associated with reduced abundance of
Firmicutes and increased abundance of Proteobacteria. The abundance of
Lachnospiraceae, Ruminococcaceae, and Lactobacillaceae was reduced in α-MG-fed
mice, while that of Enterobacteriaceae and Enterococcaceae was increased. Dietary
α-MG also was associated with increased proliferation of colonic epithelial
cells, infiltration of immune cells, infiltration of immune cells and increased
fluid content in stool. These results suggest that ingestion of pharmacologic
doses of xanthones in mangosteen-containing supplements may adversely alter the
gut microbiota and should be used with caution.

PMID: 25621505  [PubMed - in process]


603. Oncotarget. 2015 Jan 22. [Epub ahead of print]

Antibiotics that target mitochondria effectively eradicate cancer stem cells,
across multiple tumor types: Treating cancer like an infectious disease.

Lamb R(1), Ozsvari B(1), Lisanti CL(2), Tanowitz HB(3), Howell A(1),
Martinez-Outschoorn UE(4), Sotgia F(1), Lisanti MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Unit, Institute of Cancer Sciences,
University of Manchester, UK. The Manchester Centre for Cellular Metabolism
(MCCM), Institute of Cancer Sciences, University of Manchester, UK. (2)The Moor
Allerton Preparatory School, Didsbury, Manchester, UK. (3)Departments of
Pathology and Medicine, The Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA. 
(4)The Kimmel Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Here, we propose a new strategy for the treatment of early cancerous lesions and 
advanced metastatic disease, via the selective targeting of cancer stem cells
(CSCs), a.k.a., tumor-initiating cells (TICs). We searched for a global
phenotypic characteristic that was highly conserved among cancer stem cells,
across multiple tumor types, to provide a mutation-independent approach to cancer
therapy. This would allow us to target cancer stem cells, effectively treating
cancer as a single disease of "stemness", independently of the tumor tissue type.
Using this approach, we identified a conserved phenotypic weak point - a strict
dependence on mitochondrial biogenesis for the clonal expansion and survival of
cancer stem cells. Interestingly, several classes of FDA-approved antibiotics
inhibit mitochondrial biogenesis as a known "side-effect", which could be
harnessed instead as a "therapeutic effect". Based on this analysis, we now show 
that 4-to-5 different classes of FDA-approved drugs can be used to eradicate
cancer stem cells, in 12 different cancer cell lines, across 8 different tumor
types (breast, DCIS, ovarian, prostate, lung, pancreatic, melanoma, and
glioblastoma (brain)). These five classes of mitochondrially-targeted antibiotics
include: the erythromycins, the tetracyclines, the glycylcyclines, an
anti-parasitic drug, and chloramphenicol. Functional data are presented for one
antibiotic in each drug class: azithromycin, doxycycline, tigecycline, pyrvinium 
pamoate, as well as chloramphenicol, as proof-of-concept. Importantly, many of
these drugs are non-toxic for normal cells, likely reducing the side effects of
anti-cancer therapy. Thus, we now propose to treat cancer like an infectious
disease, by repurposing FDA-approved antibiotics for anti-cancer therapy, across 
multiple tumor types. These drug classes should also be considered for prevention
studies, specifically focused on the prevention of tumor recurrence and distant
metastasis. Finally, recent clinical trials with doxycycline and azithromycin
(intended to target cancer-associated infections, but not cancer cells) have
already shown positive therapeutic effects in cancer patients, although their
ability to eradicate cancer stem cells was not yet appreciated.

PMID: 25625193  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


604. Pract Radiat Oncol. 2015 Jan 22. pii: S1879-8500(14)00369-5. doi:
10.1016/j.prro.2014.12.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Patterns of care for omission of radiation therapy for elderly women with
early-stage breast cancer receiving hormonal therapy.

Rhieu BH(1), Rajagopalan MS(1), Sukumvanich P(2), Kelley JL(2), Ahrendt GM(3),
Heron DE(1), Beriwal S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (2)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of
Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (3)Department of Surgery, 
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Electronic address: beriwals@upmc.edu.

PURPOSE: For well-selected elderly women who undergo segmental mastectomy for
early-stage, estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, hormonal therapy alone is 
emerging as an acceptable adjuvant therapy option since the initial publication
of Cancer and Leukemia Group B 9343 study in 2004 and update in 2013. The rate of
adoption of adjuvant hormonal therapy alone in lieu of radiation therapy (RT) and
its associated patterns of care is not known in the United States and was the
subject of this study.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We used the National Cancer Data Base to identify women
aged ≥70 diagnosed with T1N0/T1Nx invasive breast cancer who underwent segmental 
mastectomy between 1998 and 2011. Because hormone receptor status was not
specifically and reliably coded, only those who received hormonal therapy were
included in this analysis. Univariate and multivariable exploratory analyses of
factors associated with the use of RT were performed using SPSS, version 17.0.
RESULTS: Of the 182,115 patients who met inclusion criteria, 97,530 (53.6%)
patients underwent hormonal therapy and were included in the analysis. The RT
utilization rate in this subset decreased with time from 84.9% in 1998 to 75.1%
in 2011 (P< .001). Multivariable analysis revealed that the factors associated
with decreased use of RT include (in order of association): older age, later year
of diagnosis, greater comorbidity score, low grade, lack of insurance, treatment 
at academic facility, race, rural location, lower median income, and distance
from facility.
CONCLUSIONS: This study assesses the patterns of care associated with the
omission of RT in elderly women with early-stage breast cancer who received
adjuvant hormonal therapy. Since the publication of major clinical trials, this
strategy has been increasingly adopted. The strongest predictors of using this
strategy included advanced patient age, high comorbidity score, and low-grade
disease.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25620165  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


605. Radiologia. 2015 Jan 22. pii: S0033-8338(14)00201-X. doi:
10.1016/j.rx.2014.12.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Key aspects in interpreting clinical trials in radiology.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Díaz Gómez L(1), García Villar C(2), Seguro Fernández Á(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad Clínica de Oncología Radioterápica, Hospital Universitario Puerta del
Mar, Cádiz, España. (2)Unidad Clínica de Diagnóstico por Imagen, Hospital
Universitario Puerta del Mar, Cádiz, España. Electronic address:
cristina.garcia.villar@gmail.com.

A clinical trial is an experimental study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
a treatment or diagnostic technique in human beings. To ensure the methodological
quality of a clinical trial and the validity of its results, various checklists
have been elaborated to identify biases that could invalidate its conclusions.
This article focuses on the points we need to consider in the critical evaluation
of a clinical trial. We can usually find this information in the "materials and
methods" and "results" sections of articles. Randomization, follow-up (or
analysis of losses), blinding, and equivalence between groups (apart from the
intervention itself) are some key aspects related to design. In the "results"
section, we need to consider what measures of clinical efficacy were used
(relative risk, odds ratio, or number needed to treat, among others) and the
precision of the results (confidence intervals). Once we have confirmed that the 
clinical trial fulfills these criteria, we need to determine whether the results 
can be applied in our environment and whether the benefits obtained justify the
risks and costs involved.

Copyright © 2014 SERAM. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620651  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


606. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2015 Jan 22. pii: S1888-9891(14)00149-9. doi:
10.1016/j.rpsm.2014.11.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Psychosocial interventions in the treatment of youth diagnosed or at high-risk
for pediatric bipolar disorder: A review of the literature.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Frías Á(1), Palma C(2), Farriols N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Facultat de Psicologia, Ciències de l'Educació i l'Esport (FPCEE) Blanquerna, 
Universidad de Ramon-Llull, Barcelona, España. Electronic address:
afrias@csdm.cat. (2)Facultat de Psicologia, Ciències de l'Educació i l'Esport
(FPCEE) Blanquerna, Universidad de Ramon-Llull, Barcelona, España.

Pediatric bipolar disorder (PBD) has emerged as a research field in which
psychosocial treatments have provided a plethora of empirical findings over the
last decade. We addressed this issue through a systematic review aimed of
establishing their effectiveness and feasibility as adjunctive therapies for
youth with PBD or at high-risk for PBD. A comprehensive search of databases was
performed between 1990 and September 2014. Overall, 33 studies were specifically 
related to the issue and 20 of them were original articles. Evidence suggests
that both «multi-family psychoeducational psychotherapy» and «family-focused
therapy» are possible effective treatments for PBD. Likewise, «child and
family-focused cognitive-behavioral therapy» may be characterized as a treatment 
in its experimental phase. The remaining therapies fail to obtain enough
empirical support due to inconsistent findings among clinical trials or data
solely based on case reports. Studies of psychosocial treatments provide
concluding results concerning their feasibility and acceptability. Larger sample 
sizes and more randomized controlled trials are mandatory for diminishing
methodological shortcomings encountered in the treatments displayed.

Copyright © 2014 SEP y SEPB. Published by Elsevier España. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620426  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


607. Transpl Int. 2015 Jan 22. doi: 10.1111/tri.12527. [Epub ahead of print]

The use of novel diagnostics to individualize immunosuppression following
transplantation.

Schlickeiser S(1), Boës D, Streitz M, Sawitzki B.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Immunology, CCM, Charité University Berlin, Berlin,
Germany.

Despite major improvements in short-term survival of organ allografts, long-term 
graft survival has not changed significantly. It is also known that toxic side
effects of current immunosuppressive drugs (IS) especially calcineurin inhibitors
(CNI) contribute to the unsatisfactory graft and patient survival following
transplantation. Thus, clinicians strive to reduce or wean IS in potentially
eligible patients. Research in the last 10 years has focussed on identification
of biomarkers suitable for patient stratification in minimization or weaning
trials. Most of the described biomarkers have been run retrospectively on samples
collected within single-centre trials. Thus, often their performance has not been
validated in other potentially multicentre clinical trials. Ultimately, the
utility of biomarkers to identify potential weaning candidates should be
investigated in large randomized prospective trials. In particular, for testing
in such trials, we need more information about the accuracy, reproducibility,
stability and limitations of the described biomarkers. Also, data repositories
summarizing crucial information on biomarker performance in age- and
gender-matched healthy individuals of different ethnicity are missing. This
together with improved bioinformatics tools might help in developing better
scores for patient stratification. Here, we will summarize the current results,
knowledge and limitations on biomarkers for drug minimization or weaning trials.

© 2015 Steunstichting ESOT.

PMID: 25611562  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


608. Blood Rev. 2015 Jan 21. pii: S0268-960X(15)00004-1. doi:
10.1016/j.blre.2015.01.002. [Epub ahead of print]

An ATRActive future for differentiation therapy in AML.

Johnson DE(1), Redner RL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh PA 15213 USA. (2)Department of Medicine and 
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh
PA 15213 USA. Electronic address: redner@pitt.edu.

The success of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) therapy in acute promeylocytic
leukemia (APL) has spawned numerous attempts to translate the paradigm of
differentiation therapy to non-APL acute myelocytic leukemia (AML). However, the 
results of clinical trials have been overall disappointing. In this review we
discuss the mechanism of retinoic acid signaling and the results of major
clinical trials that have attempted to incorporate ATRA into AML regimens. We
discuss recent evidence that indicate that the retinoic acid signaling pathway
may be dysfunctional in AML. Preliminary studies suggest that targeting the
pathways that modify retinoic acid receptor activity may reactivate the dormant
retinoic acid-signaling pathway. Such strategies may revive the ability of ATRA
to induce myeloid differentiation and apoptosis in non-APL AML.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25631637  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


609. BMC Cancer. 2015 Jan 21;15(1):15. [Epub ahead of print]

Prognostic factors and treatment outcomes in patients with Small Bowel
Adenocarcinoma (SBA): The Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) experience.

Khan K, Peckitt C, Sclafani F, Watkins D, Rao S, Starling N, Jain V, Trivedi S,
Stanway S, Cunningham D, Chau I.

BackgroundSBA is a rare tumour which carries a poor prognosis. Very few data on
prognostic factors and treatment outcomes are available. We conducted a
retrospective analysis of patients treated for SBA at our
institution.MethodsClinico-pathological characteristics, treatments and outcomes 
of all the SBA patients treated consecutively from 1996 to 2011 were
retrospectively collected. The prognostic value of baseline factors was assessed 
using the Cox regression model. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the 
survival outcomes.ResultsEighty-four patients with SBA were treated during the
study period. Of these, 48 presented with early stage SBA, while 36 had
unresectable disease. All early stage SBA patients (58.3% males; median age,
59 years) underwent resection (R0 in 44/48) and 27 (56%) received adjuvant
chemotherapy. Median relapse-free survival and overall survival (OS) were
31.1 months (95% CI: 8.0-54.3) and 42.9 (95% CI: 0¿94.9), respectively. In
univariate analyses, poor histological differentiation (p¿=¿0.025) and
lymphovascular invasion (p¿=¿0.003) were prognostic for OS. In the group of
patients with relapsed, unresectable or metastatic disease (n¿=¿59), systemic
chemotherapy was administered in 46 cases (78%). The response rate to first line 
chemotherapy was 50%. Median progression-free survival and OS were 8.8 (95% CI:
5.5-12.3) and 12.8 months (95% CI: 8.4-17.2), respectively. In univariate
analyses, low albumin (p¿=¿0.041) and high platelet count (p¿=¿0.007) were
prognostic for OS.ConclusionProspective clinical trials are needed to inform the 
management of SBA patients. Prognostic factors evaluated in our series may be
useful for patient stratification and treatment selection in future studies.

PMCID: PMC4305243
PMID: 25603878  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


610. BMJ Open. 2015 Jan 21;5(1):e005636. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-005636.

Effect of study design and setting on tuberculosis clustering estimates using
Mycobacterial Interspersed Repetitive Units-Variable Number Tandem Repeats
(MIRU-VNTR): a systematic review.

Mears J(1), Abubakar I(2), Cohen T(3), McHugh TD(4), Sonnenberg P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection and Population Health, University College London,
London, UK. (2)Department of Infection and Population Health, University College 
London, London, UK Centre for Infectious Disease Surveillance and Control, Public
Health England, London, UK Clinical Trials Unit, Medical Research Council,
London, UK. (3)Division of Global Health Equity, Brigham and Women's Hospital and
Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard University, 
Boston, USA. (4)Department of Infection, Centre for Clinical Microbiology,
University College London, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To systematically review the evidence for the impact of study design 
and setting on the interpretation of tuberculosis (TB) transmission using
clustering derived from Mycobacterial Interspersed Repetitive Units-Variable
Number Tandem Repeats (MIRU-VNTR) strain typing.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINHAL, Web of Science and Scopus were searched
for articles published before 21st October 2014.
REVIEW METHODS: Studies in humans that reported the proportion of clustering of
TB isolates by MIRU-VNTR were included in the analysis. Univariable
meta-regression analyses were conducted to assess the influence of study design
and setting on the proportion of clustering.
RESULTS: The search identified 27 eligible articles reporting clustering between 
0% and 63%. The number of MIRU-VNTR loci typed, requiring consent to type patient
isolates (as a proxy for sampling fraction), the TB incidence and the maximum
cluster size explained 14%, 14%, 27% and 48% of between-study variation,
respectively, and had a significant association with the proportion of
clustering.
CONCLUSIONS: Although MIRU-VNTR typing is being adopted worldwide there is a
paucity of data on how study design and setting may influence estimates of
clustering. We have highlighted study design variables for consideration in the
design and interpretation of future studies.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMCID: PMC4305070
PMID: 25609667  [PubMed - in process]


611. Cancer. 2015 Jan 21. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29260. [Epub ahead of print]

Downstage migration after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer: The
reverse of the Will Rogers phenomenon?

Fokas E(1), Liersch T, Fietkau R, Hohenberger W, Hess C, Becker H, Sauer R,
Wittekind C, Rödel C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiotherapy and Oncology, University of Frankfurt, Frankfurt,
Germany.

Downstaging after neoadjuvant treatment is increasingly used as a prognostic
factor and surrogate endpoint in clinical trials. However, in recent trials of
neoadjuvant 5-fluorouracil-based chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer, downstaging
did not translate into a benefit with regard to either disease-free survival
(DFS) or overall survival. By analyzing the 10-year outcome data of the German
CAO/ARO/AIO-94 phase 3 trial, the authors demonstrated that significantly fewer
patients had poor prognostic features (eg, ypT3-4, ypN1-2) after preoperative
5-fluorouracil-based chemoradiotherapy. Nevertheless, these patients with
International Union for Cancer Control stage II disease were found to be at a
higher risk of developing distant metastases and had poorer DFS compared with
patients with corresponding TNM tumor (sub)groups in the postoperative treatment 
arm, whereas patients with International Union for Cancer Control stage III
disease demonstrated a nonsignificant trend toward a worse outcome after
preoperative treatment. Overall, DFS remained identical in both treatment arms.
Thus, "downstage migration" after neoadjuvant treatment resembles the reverse of 
the Will Rogers phenomenon and therefore may not be a reliable endpoint for
long-term outcomes. Cancer 2015. © 2015 American Cancer Society.

© 2015 American Cancer Society.

PMID: 25611452  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


612. Cancer Biol Ther. 2015 Jan 21:0. [Epub ahead of print]

Metformin: A modulator of bevacizumab activity in cancer? A case report.

Indraccolo S(1), Randon G, Zulato E, Nardin M, Aliberti C, Pomerri F, Casarin A, 
Nicoletto MO.

Author information: 
(1)a Immunology and Molecular Oncology Unit , Istituto Oncologico Veneto-IRCCS , 
Padova , Italy.

ABSTRACT Background: Recurrent type I endometrial cancer (EC) has poor prognosis 
and demands novel therapeutic approaches. Bevacizumab, a VEGF-A neutralizing
monoclonal antibody, has shown clinical activity in this setting. To our
knowledge, however, although some diabetic cancer patients treated with
bevacizumab may also take metformin, whether metformin modulates response to
anti-VEGF therapy has not yet been investigated. Here, we report the case of a
patient with advanced EC treated, among other drugs, with bevacizumab in
combination with metformin. Case presentation: The patient affected by relapsed
EC G3 type 1, presented in march 2010 with liver, lungs and mediastinic
metastases. After six cycles of paclitaxel and cisplatin she underwent partial
response. Later on, she had disease progression notwithstanding administration of
multiple lines of chemotherapy. In march 2013, due to brain metastases with coma,
she began steroid therapy with development of secondary diabetes. At this time,
administration of Bevacizumab plus Metformin improved her performance status. CT 
scans performed in this time window showed reduced radiologic density of the lung
and mediastinic lesions and of liver disease, suggestive of increased tumor
necrosis. Strong (18)F-FDG uptake by PET imaging along with high levels of
monocarboxylate transporter 4 and lack of liver kinase B1 expression in liver
metastasis, highlighted metabolic features previously associated with response to
anti-VEGF therapy and phenformin in preclinical models. However, clinical benefit
was transitory and was followed by rapid and fatal disease progression.
Conclusion: These findings - albeit limited to a single case - suggest that
tumors lacking LKB1 expression and/or endowed with an highly glycolytic phenotype
might develop large necrotic areas following combined treatment with metformin
plus bevacizumab. As metformin is widely used among diabetes patients as well as 
in ongoing clinical trials in cancer patients, these results deserve further
clinical investigation.

PMID: 25607951  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


613. Clin Ther. 2015 Jan 21. pii: S0149-2918(14)00827-3. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2014.12.007. [Epub ahead of print]

An Assessment of the Pharmacokinetics of a Sustained-Release Formulation of a
Tramadol/Acetaminophen Combination in Healthy Subjects.

Im YJ(1), Jeon JY(1), Kim EY(1), Kim Y(1), Oh DJ(2), Yoo JS(3), Shin DH(2), Chae 
SW(4), Kim MG(5).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Trial Center and Biomedical Research Institute, Chonbuk National
University Hospital, Jeonju, Republic of Korea. (2)Yungjin Pharmaceutical Co,
Ltd, Gangdong-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Pharmacology,
Chonbuk National University, Jeonju, Republic of Korea. (4)Clinical Trial Center 
and Biomedical Research Institute, Chonbuk National University Hospital, Jeonju, 
Republic of Korea; Department of Pharmacology, Chonbuk National University,
Jeonju, Republic of Korea. (5)Clinical Trial Center and Biomedical Research
Institute, Chonbuk National University Hospital, Jeonju, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: mgkim@jbnu.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: To provide consistent pain relief and improve convenient sustained
release (SR), a fixed-dose combination tramadol/acetaminophen tablet was
formulated. This study aimed to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profiles of an SR
75-mg tramadol/650-mg acetaminophen formulation after a single dose compared with
an immediate release (IR) 37.5-mg tramadol/325-mg acetaminophen formulation after
2 doses and at steady state and to assess the effect of food on the
pharmacokinetic SR formulation profile after a single dose.
METHODS: Two clinical trials were conducted: (1) an open-label, randomized,
3-period, 3-treatment, crossover study to assess the pharmacokinetic SR (one
75-mg tramadol/650-mg acetaminophen combination tablet) formulation profiles
after a single dose and IR (one 37.5-mg tramadol/325-mg acetaminophen combination
tablet q6h for 2 doses) formulation profiles after 2 doses and the effect of food
intake on healthy male subjects and (2) an open, randomized, 2-period,
2-treatment multiple dose crossover study to evaluate the steady-state
pharmacokinetic SR and IR formulation profiles. Safety assessments were
performed.
FINDINGS: Forty-three subjects completed each study protocol. The SR combination 
tramadol/acetaminophen formulation was clinically and statistically equivalent to
the IR combination formulation in the fasting state. When tramadol and
acetaminophen tablets were administered with food, the time to peak plasma
concentrations and the tramadol/acetaminophen absorption were unaffected. There
was no serious adverse event reported.
IMPLICATIONS: The SR combination tramadol/acetaminophen tablet exhibited similar 
exposure and absorption rates compared with those of the IR formulation of
tramadol, O-desmethyltramadol, and acetaminophen. The SR formulation may be more 
convenient for patients and has the potential to enhance compliance and pain
control. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01880125.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25618318  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


614. Dermatol Ther (Heidelb). 2015 Jan 21. [Epub ahead of print]

Keratolytics and Emollients and Their Role in the Therapy of Psoriasis: a
Systematic Review.

Jacobi A(1), Mayer A, Augustin M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Health Services Research in Dermatology and Nursing (IVDP),
German Center for Dermatological Research (CeDeF), University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany, a.jacobi@uke.de.

INTRODUCTION: Psoriasis is a common chronic disease with significant impairment
in quality of life. As there is no cure, it often requires lifelong disease
control to minimize the development of skin lesions and to relieve symptoms. The 
aim of this publication is to systematically review the role of currently used
emollients and keratolytics in the treatment of psoriasis.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted in Medline via PubMed
regarding reviews, meta-analyses, and trials published from January 1983 to
December 2013 dealing with topical administration of emollients and keratolytics 
in patients with psoriasis. A subsequent search in EMBASE regarding clinical
trials published from 1983 to 2013 was performed to complement the findings.
RESULTS: A total of 60 publications met the inclusion criteria for full-text
evaluation. While current reviews, meta-analyses, and guidelines state that
adjuvant therapy with emollients and keratolytics should be an obligatory part in
the therapy of psoriasis to facilitate descaling and/or penetration enhancement, 
comprehensive trials on these agents are missing, with the exception of
combination products containing salicylic acid and corticosteroids. In the
mentioned trials, addition of salicylic acid was beneficial in inducing a more
rapid onset of action as well as a reduction of severity parameters and the area 
affected. However, its use has substantial limitations in young children, in
patients with renal/hepatic impairment, with widespread psoriasis, those
undergoing phototherapy, or those concomitantly treated with
calcipotriene/systemic salicylates.
CONCLUSION: In view of these shortcomings, there is a need for well-designed
studies on suitable keratolytic alternatives to salicylic acid offering an
indisputable positive benefit-risk ratio.

PMID: 25604924  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


615. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2015 Jan 21. doi: 10.1111/dom.12442. [Epub ahead of print]

GPR40 agonists for the treatment of type 2 diabetes: life after "TAKing" a hit.

Mancini AD(1), Poitout V.

Author information: 
(1)Montreal Diabetes Research Center, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier
de l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), and Department of Medicine, Université de
Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada.

The free fatty acid receptor GPR40 has been proposed as a potential target for
type 2 diabetes (T2D) pharmacotherapy. This idea has been validated in both
pre-clinical and clinical studies, in which activation of GPR40 was shown to
improve glycemic control by stimulating glucose-dependent insulin secretion.
However, the recent termination of phase III clinical trials using the GPR40
agonist TAK-875 (Fasiglifam) has raised important questions regarding the
long-term safety and viability of targeting GPR40 and, more specifically, about
our understanding of this receptor's basic biology. Here we provide a summary of 
established and novel concepts related to GPR40's pharmacobiology and discuss the
current status and future outlook for GPR40-based drug development for the
treatment of T2D.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25604916  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


616. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2015 Jan 21. pii: S0168-8227(15)00047-9. doi:
10.1016/j.diabres.2014.12.020. [Epub ahead of print]

How well do glucose variability measures predict patient glycaemic outcomes
during treatment intensification in type 2 diabetes?

Inzucchi SE(1), Umpierrez G(2), DiGenio A(3), Zhou R(4), Kovatchev B(5).

Author information: 
(1)Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. Electronic address:
silvio.inzucchi@yale.edu. (2)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA,
USA. (3)Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Carlsbad, CA. (4)Medpace, Inc., Cincinnati,
OH, USA. (5)University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

AIM: Despite links to clinical outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus
(T2DM), the clinical utility of glycaemic variability (GV) measures is unknown.
We evaluated the correlation between baseline GV, and glycated haemoglobin
(HbA1c) attainment and hypoglycaemic events during treatment intensification in a
large group of patients.
METHODS: Patient-level data from six 24-week clinical trials of T2DM patients
undergoing treatment intensification with basal insulin or comparators (N=1699)
were pooled. Baseline GV measures included standard deviation (SD), mean
amplitude of glycaemic excursions (MAGE), mean absolute glucose (MAG),
coefficient of variation (CV), high blood glucose index (HBGI), and low blood
glucose index (LBGI) were correlated with HbA1c change and hypoglycaemic events.
RESULTS: All mean GV measures, excluding CV which worsened, improved
significantly from baseline to Week 24, with the largest proportional reduction
obtained for HBGI (-65.5%). When assessed as mean individual percentage changes
only HBGI improved significantly. Baseline GV correlated positively with Week 24 
HbA1c for SD, MAGE, and HBGI. Baseline HBGI and CV correlated negatively and
positively, respectively, with Week 24 HbA1c change. Correlations also existed
between most baseline GV measures and age, body mass index, Week 24 fasting
plasma glucose, Week 24 postprandial plasma glucose, and hypoglycaemic events;
statistical significance depended on the specific measure.
CONCLUSIONS: Pre-treatment GV is associated with glycaemic outcomes in T2DM
patients undergoing treatment intensification over 24 weeks. HBGI might be the
most robust predictor, warranting validation in dedicated prospective studies or 
randomized trials to assess the predictive value of measuring GV.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661664  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


617. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2015 Jan 21. pii: S0168-8227(15)00024-8. doi:
10.1016/j.diabres.2015.01.016. [Epub ahead of print]

C-peptide: New findings and therapeutic possibilities.

Wahren J(1), Larsson C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet,
Stockholm, Sweden; Cebix AB, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address:
john.wahren@ki.se. (2)Cebix AB, Stockholm, Sweden.

Much new information on C-peptide physiology has appeared during the past 20
years. It has been shown that C-peptide binds specifically to cell membranes,
elicits intracellular signaling via G-protein and Ca(2+)-dependent pathways,
resulting in activation and increased expression of endothelial nitric oxide
synthase, Na(+), K(+)-ATPase and several transcription factors of importance for 
anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant and cell protective mechanisms. Studies in animal
models of diabetes and early clinical trials in patients with type 1 diabetes
demonstrate that C-peptide in replacement doses elicits beneficial effects on
early stages of diabetes-induced functional and structural abnormalities of the
peripheral nerves, the kidneys and the retina. Much remains to be learned about
C-peptide's mechanism of action and long-term clinical trials in type 1 diabetes 
subjects will be required to determine C-peptide's clinical utility.
Nevertheless, even a cautious evaluation of the available evidence presents the
picture of a bioactive endogenous peptide with therapeutic potential.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25648391  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


618. DNA Cell Biol. 2015 Jan 21. [Epub ahead of print]

Autophagy in the Fight Against Tuberculosis.

Bento CF(1), Empadinhas N, Mendes V.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Medical Genetics, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research,
University of Cambridge , Cambridge, United Kingdom .

Tuberculosis (TB), a chronic infectious disease mainly caused by the tubercle
bacillus Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is one of the world's deadliest diseases
that has afflicted humanity since ancient times. Although the number of people
falling ill with TB each year is declining, its incidence in many developing
countries is still a major cause of concern. Upon invading host cells by
phagocytosis, M. tuberculosis can replicate within infected cells by arresting
the maturation of the phagosome whose function is to target the pathogen for
elimination. Host cells have mechanisms of controlling this evasion by inducing
autophagy, an elaborate cellular process that targets bacteria for progressive
elimination, decreasing bacterial loads within infected cells. In addition,
autophagy activation also aids in the control of inflammation, contributing to a 
more efficient innate immune response against M. tuberculosis. Several innovative
TB therapies have been envisaged based on autophagy manipulation, with some of
them revealing high potential for future clinical trials and eventual
implementation in healthcare systems. Thus, this review highlights the recent
advances on the innate immune response regulation by autophagy upon M.
tuberculosis infection and the promising new autophagy-based therapies for TB.

PMID: 25607549  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


619. Exp Gerontol. 2015 Jan 21. pii: S0531-5565(15)00049-2. doi:
10.1016/j.exger.2015.01.045. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of mice with accelerated aging caused by distinct mechanisms.

Gurkar AU(1), Niedernhofer LJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolism and Aging, Scripps Florida, 130 Scripps Way #3B3,
Jupiter, FL 33458, USA. (2)Department of Metabolism and Aging, Scripps Florida,
130 Scripps Way #3B3, Jupiter, FL 33458, USA. Electronic address:
lniedern@scripps.edu.

Aging is the primary risk factor for numerous chronic, debilitating diseases.
These diseases impact quality of life of the elderly and consume a large portion 
of health care costs. The cost of age-related diseases will only increase as the 
world's population continues to live longer. Thus it would be advantageous to
consider aging itself as a therapeutic target, potentially stemming multiple
age-related diseases simultaneously. While logical, this is extremely challenging
as the molecular mechanisms that drive aging are still unknown. Furthermore,
clinical trials to treat aging are impractical. Even in preclinical models,
testing interventions to extend healthspan in old age are lengthy and therefore
costly. One approach to expedite aging studies is to take advantage of mouse
strains that are engineered to age rapidly. These strains are genetically and
phenotypically quite diverse. This review aims to offer a comparison of several
of these strains to highlight their relative strengths and weaknesses as models
of mammalian and more specifically human aging. Additionally, careful
identification of commonalities among the strains may lead to the identification 
of fundamental pathways of aging.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25617508  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


620. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 Jan 21:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Early investigational drugs targeting PPAR-α for the treatment of metabolic
disease.

Liu ZM(1), Hu M, Chan P, Tomlinson B.

Author information: 
(1)Tongji University, Shanghai East Hospital, Department of Cardiac Surgery , No 
150, Jimo Road, Shanghai 200120 , China liu.zhongmin@tongji.edu.cn.

Introduction: The fibrates have been used for many years to treat dyslipidemias
and have also recently been shown to have anti-inflammatory effects. They are
relatively weak PPAR-α agonists and do have some adverse effects. Novel compounds
are in development, which are selective PPAR modulators (SPPARMs) and have more
potent PPAR-α agonist activity. These may prove to have advantages in the
treatment of dyslipidemia, insulin resistance and non-alcoholic fatty liver
disease (NAFLD). Areas covered: This review focuses on PPAR-α agonists or SPPARMs
in development describing the preclinical and early clinical studies. The
information was obtained by searching the published literature and abstracts from
recent meetings. Ongoing clinical trials were identified using the
Clinicaltrial.gov database. Expert opinion: There is still a need for new drugs
to treat atherogenic dyslipidemia. The highly potent and selective PPAR-α agonist
K-877 has shown beneficial effects on atherogenic dyslipidemia and absence of
some adverse effects seen with fibrates. The dual PPAR-α/PPAR-δ agonist GFT-505
has shown favorable results in improving atherogenic dyslipidemia and insulin
resistance and appears to be a potential candidate for the treatment of NAFLD.
Long-term trials are needed to assess the safety and efficacy of these new agents
for cardiovascular and liver outcomes.

PMID: 25604802  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


621. Haemophilia. 2015 Jan 21. doi: 10.1111/hae.12605. [Epub ahead of print]

Recombinant full-length factor VIII (FVIII) and extended half-life FVIII products
in prophylaxis - new insight provided by pharmacokinetic modelling.

Gringeri A(1), Wolfsegger M, Steinitz KN, Reininger AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Baxter Innovations GmbH, Vienna, Austria.

The pharmacokinetics (PK) of extended half-life factor VIII (FVIII) products
might allow longer dosing intervals in prophylaxis, potentially affecting its
efficacy. We used published population PK models of a recombinant full-length
FVIII (rAHF-PFM) and a recombinant B-domain-deleted FVIII Fc fusion product
(rFVIIIFc) to assess the time spent weekly with FVIII levels below 3 IU dL(-1) or
above 10 IU dL(-1) . These FVIII levels were chosen based on the observation that
trough levels of 1 IU dL(-1) may not be sufficient in all patients. This approach
was applied to a simulated population of 1000 severe haemophilia A subjects with 
dosing regimens included in the prescribing information or evaluated in clinical 
trials. FVIII levels remained ≥3 IU dL(-1) in 57% of patients treated with
rAHF-PFM 30 IU kg(-1) every 48 h compared with 41.1%, 18.3%, 0.9% and 0% of
patients treated with rFVIIIFc 30 IU kg(-1) every 72 h, 50 IU kg(-1) every 96 h
or 120 h and 65 IU kg(-1) every 168 h respectively. Patients on rAHF-PFM
30 IU kg(-1) every 48 h spent more time weekly with FVIII levels above
10 IU dL(-1) than those on rFVIIIFc 50 IU kg(-1) every 96 h or 120 h, and
65 IU kg(-1) every 168 h. In conclusion, PK modelling indicates that choice and
dosing intervals of standard and extended half-life FVIII products require
careful evaluation of individual PK to allow more time at protective levels,
especially in patients with active lifestyles.

© 2015 The Authors. Haemophilia Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25643824  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


622. J Cardiovasc Transl Res. 2015 Jan 21. [Epub ahead of print]

Guidelines for Translational Research in Heart Failure.

Lara-Pezzi E(1), Menasché P, Trouvin JH, Badimón L, Ioannidis JP, Wu JC, Hill JA,
Koch WJ, De Felice AF, de Waele P, Steenwinckel V, Hajjar RJ, Zeiher AM.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Development and Repair Department, Centro Nacional de
Investigaciones Cardiovasculares (CNIC), Melchor Fernandez Almagro 3, 28029,
Madrid, Spain, elara@cnic.es.

Heart failure (HF) remains a major cause of death and hospitalization worldwide. 
Despite medical advances, the prognosis of HF remains poor and new therapeutic
approaches are urgently needed. The development of new therapies for HF is
hindered by inappropriate or incomplete preclinical studies. In these guidelines,
we present a number of recommendations to enhance similarity between HF animal
models and the human condition in order to reduce the chances of failure in
subsequent clinical trials. We propose different approaches to address safety as 
well as efficacy of new therapeutic products. We also propose that good practice 
rules are followed from the outset so that the chances of eventual approval by
regulatory agencies increase. We hope that these guidelines will help improve the
translation of results from animal models to humans and thereby contribute to
more successful clinical trials and development of new therapies for HF.

PMID: 25604959  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


623. J Neurosci. 2015 Jan 21;35(3):1199-210. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4129-14.2015.

The Potent BACE1 Inhibitor LY2886721 Elicits Robust Central Aβ Pharmacodynamic
Responses in Mice, Dogs, and Humans.

May PC(1), Willis BA(1), Lowe SL(2), Dean RA(1), Monk SA(1), Cocke PJ(1), Audia
JE(1), Boggs LN(1), Borders AR(1), Brier RA(1), Calligaro DO(1), Day TA(1),
Ereshefsky L(3), Erickson JA(1), Gevorkyan H(4), Gonzales CR(1), James DE(1),
Jhee SS(3), Komjathy SF(1), Li L(1), Lindstrom TD(1), Mathes BM(1), Martényi
F(1), Sheehan SM(1), Stout SL(1), Timm DE(1), Vaught GM(1), Watson BM(1),
Winneroski LL(1), Yang Z(1), Mergott DJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
46285. (2)National University of Singapore Centre for Clinical Pharmacology,
Singapore 117597, Singapore. (3)PAREXEL International, Glendale, California
91206, and. (4)California Clinical Trials Medical Group, Inc., Glendale,
California 91206. (5)Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company,
Indianapolis, Indiana 46285, mergott_dustin_james@lilly.com.

BACE1 is a key protease controlling the formation of amyloid β, a peptide
hypothesized to play a significant role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's
disease (AD). Therefore, the development of potent and selective inhibitors of
BACE1 has been a focus of many drug discovery efforts in academia and industry.
Herein, we report the nonclinical and early clinical development of LY2886721, a 
BACE1 active site inhibitor that reached phase 2 clinical trials in AD. LY2886721
has high selectivity against key off-target proteases, which efficiently
translates in vitro activity into robust in vivo amyloid β lowering in
nonclinical animal models. Similar potent and persistent amyloid β lowering was
observed in plasma and lumbar CSF when single and multiple doses of LY2886721
were administered to healthy human subjects. Collectively, these data add support
for BACE1 inhibition as an effective means of amyloid lowering and as an
attractive target for potential disease modification therapy in AD.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/351199-12$15.00/0.

PMID: 25609634  [PubMed - in process]


624. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2015 Jan 21:1-6. doi:
10.3928/01913913-20150114-04. [Epub ahead of print]

Reliability and Application Variability of a Commercially Available Infrared
Videonystagmography Unit.

Gerling A, Leu SY, Echegoyen J, Nalbandian A, Lingua RW.

PURPOSE: Nystagmus is a condition of involuntary eye movement. The causes for
nystagmus may be congenital, idiopathic, or acquired. Considerable debate exists 
on the therapeutic potential of various surgical techniques. Currently, there are
neither standardized protocols nor devices to record quantitative data on
patients with clinical nystagmus undergoing various procedures at multiple
centers to facilitate randomized prospective clinical trials.
METHODS: The authors evaluated the reliability and variability of a commercially 
available infrared videonystagmography unit by recording eye movement waveforms
elicited from normal volunteers (n = 117, 13 patients, 9 trials) by different
examiners (A, B, and C). Five movement characteristics were examined, including
saccadic latency, velocity and precision, and pursuit gain and velocity.
RESULTS: The overall test/retest variability was low, where the median
coefficient of variation of the three testers for all five eye movement
categories was less than 15%, and less than 10% of the coefficients of variation 
calculated were more than 20%. However, there was a significant difference in
interobserver variability for all outcomes, except saccade latency.
CONCLUSIONS: The between-tester analysis was found to have greater variability
than the test/retest reliability analysis. Future studies at multiple sites using
videonystagmography measurements should aim to have each patient repeatedly
tested by the same tester. In anticipation of multicenter, randomized,
prospective clinical trials of surgical procedures for nystagmus, standardized
protocols for nystagmographic data collection and analysis must be validated both
within and among participating centers. [J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus.
2015;52(2):XX-XX.].

Copyright 2015, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 25608282  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


625. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2015 Jan 21:1-7. doi:
10.3928/01913913-20150114-01. [Epub ahead of print]

Delivering Clinical Trials and Observational Studies in Child Eye Health: A
Nationwide Survey in the United Kingdom.

Banteka M, Tailor V, Dahlmann-Noor A.

PURPOSE: Evidence-based medicine requires primary results from randomized
controlled trials and high-quality observational studies; however, in pediatric
medicine it can be difficult to enroll sufficient numbers of children to reach
sample sizes required for statistical significance. The experience of clinicians 
and researchers with the practicalities of recruitment has not been explored, but
could potentially inform best practice and lead to the development of successful 
research networks. Perceived barriers and facilitators to recruitment in child
eye health in the United Kingdom, where adoption of trials and studies onto a
central database has created a register of high quality projects, were
investigated.
METHODS: Studies and trials in child eye health from the United Kingdom Clinical 
Research Network portfolio database were identified and the named researchers
contacted. Based on a validated tool, an electronic survey was created to ask
about recruitment experience to identify facilitators and barriers.
RESULTS: There were 46 trials and studies recruiting children, and 51 completed
questionnaires from researchers were received. Children's eye research activity
is mainly based at tertiary referral centers. Although most studies recruit to
target, many researchers report difficulties. Availability of dedicated research 
teams in clinics and good communication between research team, clinical team, and
families are strong facilitators. Administrative difficulties and the burden of
research to clinical teams and families are strong barriers.
CONCLUSIONS: Support for investigators in the form of dedicated research and
administrative staff and good communication enhance recruitment to studies in
child eye health. [J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2015;52(2):XX-XX.].

Copyright 2015, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 25608279  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


626. J Pharm Pract. 2015 Jan 21. pii: 0897190014566308. [Epub ahead of print]

Dapagliflozin: A Sodium Glucose Cotransporter 2 Inhibitor for the Treatment of
Diabetes Mellitus.

Davis PN(1), Ndefo UA(2), Oliver A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Texas Southern University College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Houston,
TX, USA davisp@tsu.edu. (2)Texas Southern University College of Pharmacy and
Health Sciences, Houston, TX, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review clinical evidence for the efficacy, safety, and tolerability
of dapagliflozin (Farxiga-AstraZeneca), a sodium glucose cotransporter 2
inhibitor, as monotherapy or in combination with other hypoglycemic agents for
the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
DATA SOURCES: Literature was identified through a systematic MEDLINE search of
clinical trial results for dapagliflozin.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Multiple controlled clinical trials have established the
efficacy, safety, and tolerability of dapagliflozin as monotherapy or in
combination with other therapies for type 2 diabetes. Dapagliflozin is approved
by Food and Drug Administration as monotherapy or as an add-on to other glucose
lowering agents including insulin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
CONCLUSION: Dapagliflozin is effective for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25609661  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


627. Lancet Infect Dis. 2015 Jan 21. pii: S1473-3099(14)71011-4. doi:
10.1016/S1473-3099(14)71011-4. [Epub ahead of print]

The expanding role of co-trimoxazole in developing countries.

Church JA(1), Fitzgerald F(2), Walker AS(3), Gibb DM(3), Prendergast AJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Paediatrics, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary University of London,
London, UK. (2)UCL Institute of Child Health, London, UK. (3)MRC Clinical Trials 
Unit at University College London, London, UK. (4)Centre for Paediatrics, Blizard
Institute, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK; MRC Clinical Trials Unit 
at University College London, London, UK; Zvitambo Institute for Maternal and
Child Health Research, Harare, Zimbabwe. Electronic address:
a.prendergast@qmul.ac.uk.

Co-trimoxazole is an inexpensive, broad-spectrum antimicrobial drug that is
widely used in developing countries. Before antiretroviral therapy (ART)
scale-up, co-trimoxazole prophylaxis reduced morbidity and mortality in adults
and children with HIV by preventing bacterial infections, diarrhoea, malaria, and
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, despite high levels of microbial resistance.
Co-trimoxazole prophylaxis reduces early mortality by 58% (95% CI 39-71) in
adults starting ART. Co-trimoxazole provides ongoing protection against malaria
and non-malaria infections after immune reconstitution in ART-treated individuals
in sub-Saharan Africa, leading to a change in WHO guidelines, which now recommend
long-term co-trimoxazole prophylaxis for adults and children in settings with a
high prevalence of malaria or severe bacterial infections. Co-trimoxazole
prophylaxis is recommended for HIV-exposed infants from age 4-6 weeks; however,
the risks and benefits of co-trimoxazole during infancy are unclear.
Co-trimoxazole prophylaxis reduces anaemia and improves growth in children with
HIV, possibly by reducing inflammation, either through direct immunomodulatory
activity or through effects on the intestinal microbiota leading to reduced
microbial translocation. Ongoing trials are now assessing the ability of
adjunctive co-trimoxazole to reduce mortality in children after severe anaemia or
severe acute malnutrition. In this Review, we discuss the mechanisms of action,
benefits and risks, and clinical trials of co-trimoxazole in developing
countries.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25618179  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


628. MAbs. 2015 Jan 21:0. [Epub ahead of print]

Molecular basis for the antagonistic activity of an anti- interferon alpha
receptor 1 antibody.

Peng L(1), Oganesyan V, Wu H, Dall'Acqua WF, Damschroder MM.

Author information: 
(1)a MedImmune , One MedImmune Way , Gaithersburg , MD , 20878 , USA . Department
of Antibody Discovery and Protein Engineering.

Abstract MEDI546 is an antagonist human monoclonal antibody that targets
interferon alpha receptor 1 (IFNAR1). MEDI546 has been developed to treat
autoimmune diseases and is currently in clinical trials. To decipher the
molecular basis of its mechanism of action, we engaged in multiple epitope
mapping approaches to determine how it interacts with IFNAR1 and antagonizes the 
receptor. We identified the epitope of MEDI546 using enzymatic fragmentation,
phage-peptide library panning and mutagenesis approaches. Our studies revealed
that MEDI546 recognizes the SD3 subdomain of IFNAR1 with the critical residue
R(279). Further, we solved the crystal structure of MEDI546 Fab to a resolution
of 2.3 Å. Guided by our epitope mapping studies, we then used in silico protein
docking of the MEDI546 Fab crystal structure to IFNAR1 and characterized the
corresponding mode of binding. We find that MEDI546 sterically inhibits the
binding of IFN ligands to IFNAR1, thus blocking the formation of the ternary
IFN/IFNAR1/IFNAR2 signaling complex. This report provides the molecular basis for
the mechanism of action of MEDI546 and may provide insights towards designing
antibody therapies against IFNAR1.

PMID: 25606664  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


629. Med Hypotheses. 2015 Jan 21. pii: S0306-9877(15)00039-0. doi:
10.1016/j.mehy.2015.01.018. [Epub ahead of print]

Potential ghrelin-mediated benefits and risks of hydrogen water.

McCarty MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Catalytic Longevity, 7831 Rush Rose Drive, Apt. 316, Carlsbad, CA 92009,
United States. Electronic address: markfmccarty@gmail.com.

Molecular hydrogen (H2) can scavenge hydroxyl radical and diminish the toxicity
of peroxynitrite; hence, it has interesting potential for antioxidant protection.
Recently, a number of studies have explored the utility of inhaled hydrogen gas, 
or of hydrogen-saturated water, administered parenterally or orally, in rodent
models of pathology and in clinical trials, oftentimes with very positive
outcomes. The efficacy of orally ingested hydrogen-rich water (HW) has been
particularly surprising, given that only transient and rather small increments in
plasma hydrogen can be achieved by this method. A recent study in mice has
discovered that orally administered HW provokes increased gastric production of
the orexic hormone ghrelin, and that this ghrelin mediates the favorable impact
of HW on a mouse model of Parkinson's disease. The possibility that most of the
benefits observed with HW in experimental studies are mediated by ghrelin merits 
consideration. Ghrelin is well known to function as an appetite stimulant and
secretagogue for growth hormone, but it influences physiological function
throughout the body via interaction with the widely express GHS-R1a receptor.
Rodent and, to a more limited extent, clinical studies establish that ghrelin has
versatile neuroprotective and cognitive enhancing activity, favorably impacts
vascular health, exerts anti-inflammatory activity useful in autoimmune
disorders, and is markedly hepatoprotective. The stimulatory impact of ghrelin on
GH-IGF-I activity, while potentially beneficial in sarcopenia or cachectic
disorders, does raise concerns regarding the long-term impact of ghrelin
up-regulation on cancer risk. The impact of ingesting HW water on ghrelin
production in humans needs to be evaluated; if HW does up-regulate ghrelin in
humans, it may have versatile potential for prevention and control of a number of
health disorders.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25649854  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


630. Minerva Pediatr. 2015 Jan 21. [Epub ahead of print]

Pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with congenital heart disease and
eisenmenger syndrome: current practice in pediatrics.

Frank DB(1), Hanna BD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, The Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, USA - HannaB@email.chop.edu.

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is an uncommon but serious disease
characterized by severe pulmonary vascular disease and significant morbidity and 
mortality. PAH associated with congenital heart disease (APAH--CHD) is one
etiology of PAH that has innate characteristics delineating it from other forms
of PAH. The patient with APAH--CHD presents with unique challenges consisting of 
not only pulmonary vascular disease but also the complexity of the cardiac
lesion. Eisenmenger syndrome (ES) represents the severe end of the spectrum for
disease in APAH--CHD. Over time, systemic--to--pulmonary shunting through cardiac
defects increases pulmonary vascular resistance to levels significant enough to
reverse shunting across the defect. Historically, ES patients have been reported 
to have better outcomes than IPAH despite similarities in pulmonary vascular
disease. However, recent studies are challenging this notion. Nonetheless,
APAH--CHD survival has improved with the advent of modern PAH targeted therapies.
New therapeutic options have allowed us to reconsider the dogma of inoperability 
in APAH--CHD patients with unrepaired defects. Certainly advances have been made,
however, investigators must continue to advance the field through controlled
clinical trials in both adult and pediatric APAH--CHD patients.

PMID: 25604592  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


631. Nutr J. 2015 Jan 21;14(1):9. doi: 10.1186/1475-2891-14-9.

Prospective double-blind randomized study on the efficacy and safety of an n-3
fatty acid enriched intravenous fat emulsion in postsurgical gastric and
colorectal cancer patients.

Ma CJ, Wu JM, Tsai HL, Huang CW, Lu CY, Sun LC, Shih YL, Chen CW, Chuang JF, Wu
MH, Wang MY, Lin MT(1), Wang JY.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and General Surgery, Department of Surgery,
Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, No, 100
Tzyou 1st Road, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan. linmt@ntu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: A lipid emulsion composed of soybean oil (long-chain triglycerides,
LCT), medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) and n-3 poly-unsaturated fatty acids
(PUFAs) was evaluated for immune-modulation efficacy, safety, and tolerance in
patients undergoing major surgery for gastric and colorectal cancer.
METHODS: In a prospective, randomized, double-blind study, 99 patients with
gastric and colorectal cancer receiving elective surgery were recruited and
randomly assigned to either the study group, receiving the n-3 PUFAs enriched
intravenous fat emulsion (IVFE), or the control group, receiving a lipid emulsion
comprised of soybean oil and MCTs (0.8 - 1.5 g · kg-1 · day-1) as part of total
parenteral nutrition (TPN) regimen from surgery (day -1) up to post-operative day
7. Safety and efficacy parameters were assessed on day -1 and post-operative
visits on day 1, 3, and 7. Adverse events were documented daily and compared
between the groups.
RESULTS: Pro-inflammatory markers, laboratory parameters, and adverse events did 
not differ prominently between the 2 groups, with the exception of net changes
(day 7 minus day -1) of free fatty acids (FFAs), triglyceride, and high-density
lipoprotein (HDL). Net decrease of FFAs was remarkably higher in the study group,
while the net increase of triglyceride and decrease of HDL was significantly
lower.
CONCLUSIONS: The n-3 PUFA-enriched IVFE showed improvements in lipid metabolism. 
In respect of efficacy, safety and tolerance both IVFE were comparable. In
patients with severe stress, there is an inflammation-attenuating effect of n-3
PUFAs. Further, adequately powered clinical trials will be necessary to address
this question in postsurgical GI cancer patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: US ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00798447.

PMID: 25609264  [PubMed - in process]


632. Osteoporos Int. 2015 Jan 21. [Epub ahead of print]

The effects of differing resistance training modes on the preservation of bone
mineral density in postmenopausal women: a meta-analysis.

Zhao R(1), Zhao M, Xu Z.

Author information: 
(1)College of Physical Education and Health Sciences, Zhejiang Normal University,
688 Yingbin Road, Jinhua, 321004, Zhejiang Province, China, renzhao@zjnu.cn.

This meta-analysis synthesized current evidence from 24 clinical trials to
evaluate the impact of different resistance training modes on postmenopausal bone
loss. Exercise interventions were categorized into two training modes, namely
resistance-alone versus combined resistance training protocols. The combined
resistance training protocols were defined as the combination of resistance
training and high-impact or weight-bearing exercise. The results suggested that
the combined resistance training protocols were effective in improving bone
mineral density (BMD) at the femoral neck and lumbar spine.INTRODUCTION: The
current meta-analysis aimed to examine the effects of combined resistance and
resistance-alone training protocols on the preservation of femoral neck and
lumbar spine BMD in postmenopausal women.
METHODS: An electronic database search was conducted in PubMed, EMBASE,
SPORTDiscus, Web of Science, and ProQuest up to March 1, 2014 for the influence
of resistance exercise on BMD in postmenopausal women. The study quality was
evaluated. The effect sizes were estimated in terms of the standardized mean
difference (SMD). A subgroup analysis was conducted by exercise categories.
RESULTS: Twenty-four studies were included in the overall analysis of skeletal
response to resistance exercise. The between-study heterogeneity was evident for 
the hip (I (2) = 46.5 %) and spine (I (2) = 62.3 %). The overall analysis
suggested that resistance training significantly increased femoral neck BMD
(SMD = 0.303, 95 % confidence interval (95 % CI) = 0.127-0.479, p = 0.001) and
lumbar spine BMD (SMD = 0.311, 95 % CI = 0.115-0.507, p = 0.002) in
postmenopausal women. However, subgroup analysis indicated that combined
resistance training programs significantly affected both the hip BMD
(SMD = 0.411, 95 % CI = 0.176-0.645, p = 0.001) and spine BMD (SMD = 0.431, 95 % 
CI = 0.159-0.702, p = 0.002), whereas resistance-alone protocols only produced
nonsignificant positive effects both on the femoral neck and lumbar spine BMD.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined resistance exercise protocols appear effective in
preserving femoral neck and lumbar spine BMD in postmenopausal women, whereas
resistance-alone protocols only produced a nonsignificant positive effect.

PMID: 25603795  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


633. Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2015 Jan 21. doi: 10.1111/pcmr.12354. [Epub ahead of
print]

Developing core outcomes set for vitiligo clinical trials: International e-Delphi
Consensus.

Eleftheriadou V(1), Thomas K, van Geel N, Hamzavi I, Lim H, Suzuki T, Katayama I,
Anbar T, Abdallah M, Benzekri L, Gauthier Y, Harris J, Silva de Castro CC, Pandya
A, Goh BK, Lan CC, Oiso N, Al Issa A, Esmat S, Le Poole IC, Lee AY, Parsad D,
Taieb A, Picardo M, Ezzedine K; The Vitiligo Global Issues Consensus Group
(VGICG).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Evidence Based Dermatology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham,
United Kingdom.

Vitiligo is the most common depigmentating disorder for which the 2010 Cochrane
systematic review of interventions for vitiligo concluded there was a need for
unified outcome measures to harmonize trial designs and allow meta-analyses. In
this context, we performed a three stage, web-based, international electronic
Delphi consensus study involving 101 participants from 3 stakeholder groups from 
24 countries (dermatologists and researchers interested in vitiligo, patients
with vitiligo, representatives of regulatory agencies, and journal editors).
Participants were identified through the International Federation of Pigment Cell
Societies (Asian, Japanese, European and Pan-american). Consensus was pre-defined
as being achieved if >75% of participants in two stakeholder groups agreed that a
domain (outcome) should be included in the core outcomes set. Three domains were 
deemed essential, i.e. repigmentation, side effects and harms of treatment, and
maintenance of gained repigmentation. An additional four domains were recommended
(to be reported if relevant to the intervention and trial design). These were
cosmetic acceptability of results, quality of life, cessation of spreading of
vitiligo, and tolerability/burden of treatment. Core outcomes domains were
identified with a high degree of consensus amongst different stakeholder groups
internationally. Future research is needed to develop and validate scales to
measure each identified domain. This article is protected by copyright. All
rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25645179  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


634. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2015 Jan 21;69(0):91-7.

Immunomodulatory and antitumor properties of polysaccharide peptide (PSP).

Piotrowski J(1), Jędrzejewski T(2), Kozak W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Interdyscyplinarne Centrum Nowoczesnych Technologii, Uniwersytet Mikołaja
Kopernika w Toruniu; Zakład Immunologii, Wydział Biologii i Ochrony Środowiska,
Uniwersytet Mikołaja Kopernika w Toruniu. (2)Zakład Immunologii, Wydział Biologii
i Ochrony Środowiska, Uniwersytet Mikołaja Kopernika w Toruniu.

Modern medicine successfully uses multiple immunomodulators of natural origin,
that can affect biological reactions and support body's natural defense
mechanisms including antitumor activities. Among them is a group of products
derived from fungi, including schizophyllan, lentinan, polysaccharide Krestin
(PSK), and polysaccharidepeptide (PSP). Present paper is focused on
polysaccharidepeptide, which due to the negligible toxicity and numerous benefits
for health, is increasingly used in China and Japan as an adjuvant in the
treatment of cancer. PSP is a protein-polisaccharide complex with a molecular
weight 100 kDa derived from Coriolus versicolor mushroom. The results of numerous
studies and clinical trials confirm that it inhibits the growth of cancer cells
in in vitro and in vivo settings as well as decreases cancer treatment-related
adverse side effects such as fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, and
pain. PSP is able to restore weakened immune response observed in patients with
cancer during chemotherapy. Its anti-tumor effects seemed to be mediated through 
immunomodulatory regulation. PSP stimulates cells of the immune system, induces
synthesis of cytokines such as interleukin-1β (IL-1β), IL-6 and tumor necrosis
factor-α (TNF-α), eicosanoids including prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), histamine,
reactive oxygen species and nitrogen mediators. There is a growing interest in
understanding the mechanisms of PSP action. Because of its unique properties and 
safety, PSP may become a widely used therapeutic agent in the near future.

PMID: 25614677  [PubMed - in process]


635. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan 21;21(3):820-828.

Technical tips of endoscopic ultrasound-guided choledochoduodenostomy.

Ogura T(1), Higuchi K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Takeshi Ogura, Kazuhide Higuchi, Second Department of Internal Medicine, Osaka
Medical College, Osaka 569-8686, Japan.

Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is clinically useful not only as a diagnostic tool
during EUS-guided fine needle aspiration, but also during interventional EUS.
EUS-guided biliary drainage has been developed and performed by experienced
endoscopists. EUS-guided choledocoduodenostomy (EUS-CDS) is relatively well
established as an alternative biliary drainage method for biliary decompression
in patients with biliary obstruction. The reported technical success rate of
EUS-CDS ranges from 50% to 100%, and the clinical success rate ranges from 92% to
100%. Further, the over-all technical success rate was 93%, and clinical success 
rate was 98%. Based on the currently available literature, the overall adverse
event rate for EUS-CDS is 16%. The data on the cumulative technical and clinical 
success rate for EUS-CDS is promising. However, EUS-CDS can still lead to several
problems, so techniques or devices that are more feasible and safe need to be
established. EUS-CDS has the potential to become a first-line biliary drainage
procedure, although standardizing the technique in multicenter clinical trials
and comparisons with endoscopic biliary drainage by randomized clinical trials
are still needed.

PMCID: PMC4299334
PMID: 25624715  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


636. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan 21;21(3):742-758.

Use of mesenchymal stem cells to treat liver fibrosis: Current situation and
future prospects.

Berardis S(1), Dwisthi Sattwika P(1), Najimi M(1), Sokal EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Silvia Berardis, Prenali Dwisthi Sattwika, Mustapha Najimi, Etienne Marc
Sokal, Laboratory of Pediatric Hepatology and Cell Therapy, Institut de Recherche
Expérimentale et Clinique, Cliniques Universitaires St Luc, Université Catholique
de Louvain, 1200 Brussels, Belgium.

Progressive liver fibrosis is a major health issue for which no effective
treatment is available, leading to cirrhosis and orthotopic liver
transplantation. However, organ shortage is a reality. Hence, there is an urgent 
need to find alternative therapeutic strategies. Cell-based therapy using
mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) may represent an attractive therapeutic option,
based on their immunomodulatory properties, their potential to differentiate into
hepatocytes, allowing the replacement of damaged hepatocytes, their potential to 
promote residual hepatocytes regeneration and their capacity to inhibit hepatic
stellate cell activation or induce their apoptosis, particularly via paracrine
mechanisms. The current review will highlight recent findings regarding the input
of MSC-based therapy for the treatment of liver fibrosis, from in vitro studies
to pre-clinical and clinical trials. Several studies have shown the ability of
MSCs to reduce liver fibrosis and improve liver function. However, despite these 
promising results, some limitations need to be considered. Future prospects will 
also be discussed in this review.

PMCID: PMC4299328
PMID: 25624709  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


637. Actas Dermosifiliogr. 2015 Jan 20. pii: S0001-7310(14)00478-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ad.2014.10.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Predictors of Sentinel Lymph Node Status in Cutaneous Melanoma: A Classification 
and Regression Tree Analysis.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Tejera-Vaquerizo A(1), Martín-Cuevas P(2), Gallego E(3), Herrera-Acosta E(2),
Traves V(4), Herrera-Ceballos E(2), Nagore E(5).

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Dermatología, Instituto de Biomedicina de Málaga (IBIMA), Hospital
Universitario Virgen de la Victoria/Universidad de Málaga, Málaga, España.
Electronic address: antoniotejera@aedv.es. (2)Servicio de Dermatología, Instituto
de Biomedicina de Málaga (IBIMA), Hospital Universitario Virgen de la
Victoria/Universidad de Málaga, Málaga, España. (3)Servicio de Anatomía
Patológica, Instituto de Biomedicina de Málaga (IBIMA), Hospital Universitario
Virgen de la Victoria/Universidad de Málaga, Málaga, España. (4)Departamento de
Anatomía Patológica, Instituto Valenciano de Oncología, Valencia, España.
(5)Servicio de Dermatología, Instituto Valenciano de Oncología, Valencia. España.

OBJECTIVE: The main aim of this study was to identify predictors of sentinel
lymph node (SN) metastasis in cutaneous melanoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study of 818 patients in 2 
tertiary-level hospitals. The primary outcome variable was SN involvement.
Independent predictors were identified using multiple logistic regression and a
classification and regression tree (CART) analysis.
RESULTS: Ulceration, tumor thickness, and a high mitotic rate (≥6 mitoses/mm(2)) 
were independently associated with SN metastasis in the multiple regression
analysis. The most important predictor in the CART analysis was Breslow
thickness. Absence of an inflammatory infiltrate, patient age, and tumor location
were predictive of SN metastasis in patients with tumors thicker than 2mm. In the
case of thinner melanomas, the predictors were mitotic rate (>6 mitoses/mm(2)),
presence of ulceration, and tumor thickness. Patient age, mitotic rate, and tumor
thickness and location were predictive of survival.
CONCLUSIONS: A high mitotic rate predicts a higher risk of SN involvement and
worse survival. CART analysis improves the prediction of regional metastasis,
resulting in better clinical management of melanoma patients. It may also help
select suitable candidates for inclusion in clinical trials.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L.U. y AEDV. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25616352  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


638. BMC Med. 2015 Jan 20;13(1):11. doi: 10.1186/s12916-014-0255-6.

Major dietary patterns and risk of frailty in older adults: a prospective cohort 
study.

León-Muñoz LM(1), García-Esquinas E, López-García E, Banegas JR,
Rodríguez-Artalejo F.

Author information: 
(1)CIBER of Epidemiology and Public Health (CIBERESP), Arzobispo Morcillo, s/n
28029, Madrid, Spain. luz.leon@uam.es.

BACKGROUND: There is emerging evidence of the role of certain nutrients as risk
factors for frailty. However, people eat food, rather than nutrients, and no
previous study has examined the association between dietary patterns empirically 
derived from food consumption and the risk of frailty in older adults.
METHODS: This is a prospective cohort study of 1,872 non-institutionalized
individuals aged ≥60 years recruited between 2008 and 2010. At baseline, food
consumption was obtained with a validated diet history and, by using factor
analysis, two dietary patterns were identified: a 'prudent' pattern,
characterized by high intake of olive oil and vegetables, and a 'Westernized'
pattern, with a high intake of refined bread, whole dairy products, and red and
processed meat, as well as low consumption of fruit and vegetables. Participants 
were followed-up until 2012 to assess incident frailty, defined as at least three
of the five Fried criteria (exhaustion, weakness, low physical activity, slow
walking speed, and unintentional weight loss).
RESULTS: Over a 3.5-year follow-up, 96 cases of incident frailty were
ascertained. The multivariate odds ratios (95% confidence interval) of frailty
among those in the first (lowest), second, and third tertile of adherence to the 
prudent dietary pattern were 1, 0.64 (0.37-1.12), and 0.40 (0.2-0.81),
respectively; P-trend = 0.009. The corresponding values for the Westernized
pattern were 1, 1.53 (0.85-2.75), and 1.61 (0.85-3.03); P-trend = 0.14. Moreover,
a greater adherence to the Westernized pattern was associated with an increasing 
risk of slow walking speed and weight loss.
CONCLUSIONS: In older adults, a prudent dietary pattern showed an inverse
dose-response relationship with the risk of frailty while a Westernized pattern
had a direct relationship with some of their components. Clinical trials should
test whether a prudent pattern is effective in preventing or delaying frailty.

PMCID: PMC4298966
PMID: 25601152  [PubMed - in process]


639. Br J Cancer. 2015 Jan 20. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2014.623. [Epub ahead of print]

ACTN4 copy number increase as a predictive biomarker for chemoradiotherapy of
locally advanced pancreatic cancer.

Watanabe T(1), Ueno H(2), Watabe Y(3), Hiraoka N(4), Morizane C(2), Itami J(5),
Okusaka T(2), Miura N(3), Kakizaki T(3), Kakuya T(3), Kamita M(3), Tsuchida A(6),
Nagakawa Y(6), Wilber H(7), Yamada T(3), Honda K(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Chemotherapy and Clinical Research, National Cancer Center
Research Institute, 5-1-1, Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0045, Japan [2] Department
of Gastrointestinal and Pediatric Surgery, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo
160-0023, Japan. (2)Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology Division, National
Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo 104-0045, Japan. (3)Division of Chemotherapy and
Clinical Research, National Cancer Center Research Institute, 5-1-1, Tsukiji,
Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0045, Japan. (4)Division of Molecular Pathology, National
Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo, 104-0045 Japan. (5)Division of Radiation
Oncology, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo 104-0045, Japan.
(6)Department of Gastrointestinal and Pediatric Surgery, Tokyo Medical
University, Tokyo 160-0023, Japan. (7)Abnova, 9th Floor, No. 108, Jhouzih Street,
Neihu District, Taipei City 114, Taiwan.

Background:Several clinical trials have compared chemotherapy alone and
chemoradiotherapy (CRT) for locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) treatment. 
However, predictive biomarkers for optimal therapy of LAPC remain to be
identified.We retrospectively estimated amplification of the ACTN4 gene to
determine its usefulness as a predictive biomarker for LAPC.Methods:The copy
number of ACTN4 in 91 biopsy specimens of LAPC before treatment was evaluated
using fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH).Results:There were no
statistically significant differences in overall survival (OS) or
progression-free survival (PFS) of LAPC between patients treated with
chemotherapy alone or with CRT. In a subgroup analysis of patients treated with
CRT, patients with a copy number increase (CNI) of ACTN4 had a worse prognosis of
OS than those with a normal copy number (NCN) of ACTN4 (P=0.0005, log-rank test).
However, OS in the subgroup treated with chemotherapy alone was not significantly
different between patients with a CNI and a NCN of ACTN4. In the patients with a 
NCN of ACTN4, the median survival time of PFS in CRT-treated patients was longer 
than that of patients treated with chemotherapy alone (P=0.049).Conclusions:The
copy number of ACTN4 is a predictive biomarker for CRT of LAPC.British Journal of
Cancer advance online publication, 20 January 2015; doi:10.1038/bjc.2014.623
www.bjcancer.com.

PMID: 25602965  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


640. Cancer Res. 2015 Jan 20. pii: canres.3225.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

Cancer Stem Cells: Targeting the Roots of Cancer, Seeds of Metastasis, and
Sources of Therapy Resistance.

Adorno-Cruz V(1), Kibria G(1), Liu X(1), Doherty M(1), Junk DJ(2), Guan D(3),
Hubert CG(4), Venere M(5), Mulkearns-Hubert E(5), Sinyuk M(6), Alvarado A(5),
Caplan AI(7), Rich JN(8), Gerson SL(9), Lathia JD(6), Liu H(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University. (2)Pathology, Case
Western Reserve University. (3)Department of Biochemistry, Case Western Reserve
University. (4)Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital. (5)Department of Cellular
and Molecular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic. (6)Cellular and Molecular Medicine,
Cleveland Clinic. (7)Biology, Case Western Reserve University. (8)Stem Cell
Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Cleveland Clinic. (9)cancer, Case
Comprehensive Cancer Center. (10)Department of Pathology and Case Comprehensive
Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University hliu@case.edu.

With the goal to remove the roots of cancer, eliminate metastatic seeds, and
overcome therapy resistance, the 2014 inaugural International Cancer Stem Cell
(CSC) Conference at Cleveland, OH, convened together over 320 investigators,
including 55 invited world-class speakers, 25 short oral presenters, and 100
poster presenters, to gain an in-depth understanding of CSCs and explore
therapeutic opportunities targeting CSCs. The meeting enabled intriguing
discussions on several topics including: genetics and epigenetics; cancer origin 
and evolution; microenvironment and exosomes; metabolism and inflammation;
metastasis and therapy resistance; single cell and heterogeneity; plasticity and 
reprogramming; as well as other new concepts. Reports of clinical trials
targeting CSCs emphasized the urgent need for strategically designing
combinational CSC-targeting therapies against cancer.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25604264  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


641. Clin Exp Allergy. 2015 Jan 20. doi: 10.1111/cea.12489. [Epub ahead of print]

Children with atopic dermatitis show clinical improvement after Lactobacillus
exposure.

Wang IJ(1), Wang JY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei Hospital, Ministry of Health and Welfare,
Taipei, Taiwan; College of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei,
Taiwan; China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The role of probiotics in the treatment of atopic dermatitis (AD) is 
not clearly established. Further clinical trials with new probiotic formulations 
are warranted.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of Lactobacillus paracasei (LP) and
Lactobacillus fermentum (LF), and their mixture on the disease severity, quality 
of life, and immune biomarkers of children with AD.
METHOD: A double-blind, prospective, randomized placebo-controlled study was
conducted on 220 children aged 1-18 years with moderate-to-severe AD (Trial
number: NCT01635738). The children were randomized to receive LP, LF, LP+LF
mixture, and placebo for three months. Changes in SCORAD, FDLQI, and CDLQI scores
in the different groups and at different visits were evaluated. Skin prick tests,
levels of IgE, IFN-γ, IL-4, TGF-β, and TNF-α, and urine biomarkers were also
evaluated.
RESULTS: Children who received LP, LF, and LP+LF mixture showed lower SCORAD
scores than the placebo group (p<0.001) and this difference remained even at four
months after discontinuing the probiotics. The FDLQI and CDLQI scores were lower 
in the LP, LF, and LP+LF mixture group than in the placebo group (p=0.02 and
0.03). IgE, TNF-α, urine eosinophilic protein X, and 8-OHdG levels decreased,
whereas IFN-γ and TGF-β increased in the probiotic groups, but these did not
reach statistical significance except for IL-4 (p=0.04). In subgroup analyses,
SCORAD scores significantly decreased after probiotic treatment especially in
children younger than age 12, with breast feeding >6 months, and with mite
sensitization (p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Supplementation of a probiotic mixture of LP and LF is associated
with clinical improvement in children with AD. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25600169  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


642. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Golimumab, the newest TNF-캱 blocker, comes of age.

Papagoras C(1), Voulgari PV, Drosos AA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Haematology, Medical School, Democritus University of 
Thrace, Alexandroupolis; Rheumatology Clinic, Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Ioannina, Greece. charispapagoras@yahoo.com.

Golimumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody against tumour necrosis factor-α
(TNF-α) is one of the newest biologics that has become available for the
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic
arthritis. Following the initial randomised double-blind placebo-controlled
clinical trials, which demonstrated the efficacy and safety of the drug in the
context of a limited patient sample and a relatively short time frame, golimumab 
has been the focus of continuous investigation through the extensions of the
above-mentioned trials, new clinical trials and registries of biologic drug use
in daily clinical practice. The review of this data and their inclusion in
meta-analyses and indirect comparisons across TNF-α blockers suggest that
golimumab possesses similar properties regarding efficacy and safety as the older
monoclonal anti-TNF-α antibodies. The novelty of golimumab is perhaps its dosing 
regimen, i.e. subcutaneous self-administration once monthly, which allows for the
least disturbance in the life of patients.

PMID: 25602858  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


643. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 20;1:CD007356. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD007356.pub2.

Rituximab for rheumatoid arthritis.

Lopez-Olivo MA(1), Amezaga Urruela M, McGahan L, Pollono EN, Suarez-Almazor ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine, The University of Texas, M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd, Unit 1465, Houston, Texas, USA,
77030.

BACKGROUND: Rituximab is a selective, B-cell depleting, biologic agent for
treating refractory rheumatoid arthritis (RA). It is a chimeric monoclonal
antibody targeted against CD 20 that is promoted as therapy for patients who fail
to respond to other biologics. There is evidence to suggest that rituximab is
effective and well tolerated when used in combination with methotrexate for RA.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the benefits and harms of rituximab for the treatment of 
RA.
SEARCH METHODS: We conducted a search (until January 2014) in electronic
databases (The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Web of Science),
clinical trials registries, and websites of regulatory agencies. Reference lists 
from comprehensive reviews were also screened.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All controlled trials comparing treatment with rituximab as
monotherapy or in combination with any disease modifying anti-rheumatic drug
(DMARD) (traditional or biologic) versus placebo or other DMARD (traditional or
biologic) in adult patients with active RA.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed the risk 
of bias and abstracted data from each study.
MAIN RESULTS: We included eight studies with 2720 patients. For six studies
selection bias could not be evaluated and two studies were considered to have low
risk of bias. The level of evidence ranged from low to high, but was rated as
moderate for most outcomes. We have prioritised reporting of rituximab (two 1000 
mg doses) in combination with methotrexate since this is the approved dose and
most commonly used combination. We also reported data on other combinations and
doses as supplementary information in the results section of the review.American 
College of Rheumatology (ACR) 50 response rates were statistically significantly 
improved with rituximab (two 1000 mg doses) in combination with methotrexate
compared with methotrexate alone at 24 to 104 weeks. The RR for achieving an ACR 
50 at 24 weeks was 3.3 (95% CI 2.3 to 4.6); 29% of patients receiving rituximab
(two 1000 mg doses) in combination with methotrexate achieved the ACR 50 compared
to 9% of controls. The absolute treatment benefit (ATB) was 21% (95% CI 16% to
25%) with a number needed to treat (NNT) of 6 (95% CI 4 to 9).At 52 weeks, the RR
for achieving clinical remission (Disease Activity Score (DAS) 28 joints < 2.6)
with rituximab (two 1000 mg doses) in combination with methotrexate compared with
methotrexate monotherapy was 2.4 (95% CI 1.7 to 3.5); 22% of patients receiving
rituximab (two 1000 mg doses) in combination with methotrexate achieved clinical 
remission compared to 11% of controls. The ATB was 11% (95% CI 2% to 20%) with a 
NNT of 7 (95% CI 4 to 13).At 24 weeks, the RR for achieving a clinically
meaningful improvement (CMI) in the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) (>
0.22) for patients receiving rituximab combined with methotrexate compared to
patients on methotrexate alone was 1.6 (95% CI 1.2 to 2.1). The ATB was 24% (95% 
CI 12% to 36%) with an NNT of 5 (95% CI 3 to 13). At 104 weeks, the RR for
achieving a CMI in HAQ (> 0.22) was 1.4 (95% CI 1.3 to 1.6). The ATB was 24% (95%
CI 16% to 31%) with a NNT of 5 (95% CI 3 to 7).At 24 weeks, the RR for preventing
radiographic progression in patients receiving rituximab (two 1000 mg doses) in
combination with methotrexate was 1.2 (95% CI 1.0 to 1.4) compared to
methotrexate alone; 70% of patients receiving rituximab (two 1000 mg doses) in
combination with methotrexate had no radiographic progression compared to 59% of 
controls. The ATB was 11% (95% CI 2% to 19%) and the NNT was 10 (95% CI 5 to 57).
Similar benefits were observed at 52 to 56 weeks and 104 weeks.Statistically
significantly more patients achieved a CMI on the physical and mental components 
of the quality of life, measured by the Short Form (SF)-36, in the rituximab (two
1000 mg doses) in combination with methotrexate-treated group compared with
methotrexate alone at 24 to 52 weeks (RR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1 to 3.4; NNT 4, 95% CI 3 
to 8 and RR 1.4, 95% CI 1.1 to 1.9; NNT 8, 95% CI 5 to 19, respectively); 34 and 
13 more patients out of 100 showed an improvement in the physical component of
the quality of life measure compared to methotrexate alone (95% CI 5% to 84%; 95%
CI 7% to 8%, respectively).There was no evidence of a statistically significant
difference in the rates of withdrawals because of adverse events or for other
reasons (that is, withdrawal of consent, violation, administrative, failure to
return) in either group. However, statistically significantly more people
receiving the control drug withdrew from the study compared to those receiving
rituximab (two 1000 mg doses) in combination with methotrexate at all times (RR
0.40, 95% CI 0.32 to 0.50; RR 0.61, 95% CI 0.40 to 0.91; RR 0.48, 95% CI 0.28 to 
0.82; RR 0.58, 95% CI 0.45 to 0.75, respectively). At 104 weeks, 37% withdrew
from the control group and 20% withdrew from the rituximab (two 1000 mg doses) in
combination with methotrexate group. The absolute risk difference (ARD) was -20% 
(95% CI -34% to -5%) with a number needed to harm (NNH) of 7 (95% CI 5 to 11).A
greater proportion of patients receiving rituximab (two 1000 mg doses) in
combination with methotrexate developed adverse events after their first infusion
compared to those receiving methotrexate monotherapy and placebo infusions (RR
1.6, 95% CI 1.3 to 1.9); 26% of those taking rituximab plus methotrexate reported
more events associated with their first infusion compared to 16% of those on the 
control regimen with an ARD of 9% (95% CI 5% to 13%) and a NNH of 11 (95% CI 21
to 8). However, no statistically significant differences were noted in the rates 
of serious adverse events.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Evidence from eight studies suggests that rituximab (two
1000 mg doses) in combination with methotrexate is significantly more efficacious
than methotrexate alone for improving the symptoms of RA and preventing disease
progression.

PMID: 25603545  [PubMed - in process]


644. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 20;1:CD001843. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD001843.pub5.

Conservative management for postprostatectomy urinary incontinence.

Anderson CA(1), Omar MI, Campbell SE, Hunter KF, Cody JD, Glazener CM.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Urology Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;1:CD001843.

BACKGROUND: Urinary incontinence is common after radical prostatectomy and can
also occur in some circumstances after transurethral resection of the prostate
(TURP). Conservative management includes pelvic floor muscle training with or
without biofeedback, electrical stimulation, extra-corporeal magnetic innervation
(ExMI), compression devices (penile clamps), lifestyle changes, or a combination 
of methods.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the effectiveness of conservative management for urinary
incontinence up to 12 months after transurethral, suprapubic, laparoscopic,
radical retropubic or perineal prostatectomy, including any single conservative
therapy or any combination of conservative therapies.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Group Specialised Register 
(5 February 2014), CENTRAL (2014, Issue 1), EMBASE (January 2010 to Week 3 2014),
CINAHL (January 1982 to 18 January 2014), ClinicalTrials.gov and World Health
Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (both 
searched 29 January 2014), and the reference lists of relevant articles.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials evaluating
conservative interventions for urinary continence in men after prostatectomy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two or more review authors assessed the
methodological quality of the trials and abstracted data. We tried to contact
several authors of included studies to obtain extra information.
MAIN RESULTS: Fifty trials met the inclusion criteria, 45 in men after radical
prostatectomy, four trials after TURP and one trial after either operation. The
trials included 4717 men of whom 2736 had an active conservative
intervention. There was considerable variation in the interventions, populations 
and outcome measures. Data were not available for many of the pre-stated
outcomes. Men's symptoms improved over time irrespective of management.There was 
no evidence from eight trials that pelvic floor muscle training with or without
biofeedback was better than control for men who had urinary incontinence up to 12
months after radical prostatectomy; the quality of the evidence was judged to be 
moderate (for example 57% with urinary incontinence in the intervention group
versus 62% in the control group, risk ratio (RR) for incontinence after 12 months
0.85, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.60 to 1.22). One large multi-centre trial of
one-to-one therapy showed no difference in any urinary or quality of life outcome
measures and had narrow CIs. It seems unlikely that men benefit from one-to-one
PFMT therapy after TURP. Individual small trials provided data to suggest that
electrical stimulation, external magnetic innervation, or combinations of
treatments might be beneficial but the evidence was limited. Amongst trials of
conservative treatment for all men after radical prostatectomy, aimed at both
treatment and prevention, there was moderate evidence of an overall benefit from 
pelvic floor muscle training versus control management in terms of reduction of
urinary incontinence (for example 10% with urinary incontinence after one year in
the intervention groups versus 32% in the control groups, RR for urinary
incontinence 0.32, 95% CI 0.20 to 0.51). However, this finding was not supported 
by other data from pad tests. The findings should be treated with caution because
the risk of bias assessment showed methodological limitations. Men in one trial
were more satisfied with one type of external compression device, which had the
lowest urine loss, compared to two others or no treatment. The effect of other
conservative interventions such as lifestyle changes remained undetermined as no 
trials involving these interventions were identified.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The value of the various approaches to conservative
management of postprostatectomy incontinence after radical prostatectomy remains 
uncertain. The evidence is conflicting and therefore rigorous, adequately powered
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) which abide by the principles and
recommendations of the CONSORT statement are still needed to obtain a definitive 
answer. The trials should be robustly designed to answer specific well
constructed research questions and include outcomes which are important from the 
patient's perspective in decision making and are also relevant to the healthcare 
professionals. Long-term incontinence may be managed by an external penile clamp,
but there are safety problems.

PMID: 25602133  [PubMed - in process]


645. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 20;1:CD007505. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD007505.pub2.

Pharmacotherapy for anxiety and comorbid alcohol use disorders.

Ipser JC(1), Wilson D, Akindipe TO, Sager C, Stein DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health, University of Cape Town, J-Block, 
Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory, Cape Town, South Africa, 7925.

BACKGROUND: Anxiety disorders are a potentially disabling group of disorders that
frequently co-occur with alcohol use disorders. Comorbid anxiety and alcohol use 
disorders are associated with poorer outcomes, and are difficult to treat with
standard psychosocial interventions. In addition, improved understanding of the
biological basis of the conditions has contributed to a growing interest in the
use of medications for the treatment of people with both diagnoses.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of pharmacotherapy for treating anxiety in
people with comorbid alcohol use disorders, specifically: to provide an estimate 
of the overall effects of medication in improving treatment response and reducing
symptom severity in the treatment of anxiety disorders in people with comorbid
alcohol use disorders; to determine whether specific medications are more
effective and tolerable than other medications in the treatment of particular
anxiety disorders; and to identify which factors (clinical, methodological)
predict response to pharmacotherapy for anxiety disorders.
SEARCH METHODS: Review authors searched the specialized registers of The Cochrane
Collaboration Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Review Group (CCDANCTR, to January
2014) and the Cochrane Drugs and Alcohol Group (CDAG, to March 2013) for eligible
trials. These registers contain reports of relevant randomized controlled trials 
(RCT) from: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, all
years), MEDLINE (1950 to date), EMBASE (1974 to date) and PsycINFO (1967 to
date). Review authors ran complementary searches on EMBASE, PubMed, PsycINFO and 
the Alcohol and Alcohol Problems Science Database (ETOH) (to August 2013). We
located unpublished trials through the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
RePORTER service and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical
Trials Registry Platform (to August 2013). We screened reference lists of
retrieved articles for additional studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All true RCTs of pharmacotherapy for treating anxiety
disorders with comorbid alcohol use disorders. Trials assessing drugs
administered for the treatment of drinking behaviour, such as naltrexone,
disulfiram and acomprosate were not eligible for inclusion in this systematic
review.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: A systematic review is a standardised evaluation of
all research studies that address a particular clinical issue.Two review authors 
independently assessed RCTs for inclusion in the review, collated trial data and 
assessed trial quality. We contacted investigators to obtain missing data. We
calculated categorical and continuous treatment effect estimates and their 95%
confidence intervals (CI) for treatment using a random-effects model with
effect-size variability expressed using Chi(2) and I(2) heterogeneity statistics.
MAIN RESULTS: We included five placebo-controlled pharmacotherapy RCTs (with 290 
participants) in the review. Most of the trials provided little information on
how randomization was performed or on whether both participants and study
personnel were blinded to the intervention. Two of the three trials reporting
superiority of medication compared with placebo on anxiety symptom outcomes were 
industry funded. We regarded one trial as being at high risk of bias due to
selective reporting.Study participants had Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
(DSM) III- and DSM IV-diagnosed alcohol use disorders and post-traumatic stress
disorder (two studies), social anxiety disorder (SAD; two studies) or generalized
anxiety disorder (GAD; one study). Four trials assessed the efficacy of the
selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs: sertraline, paroxetine); one RCT
investigated the efficacy of buspirone, a 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) partial
agonist. Treatment duration lasted between eight and 24 weeks. Overall, 70% of
participants included in the review were male.There was very low quality evidence
for an effect of paroxetine on global clinical response to treatment, as assessed
by the Clinical Global Impressions - Improvement scale (CGI-I). Global clinical
response was observed in more than twice as many participants with paroxetine
than with placebo (57.7% with paroxetine versus 25.8% with placebo; risk ratio
(RR) 2.23, 95% CI 1.13 to 4.41; 2 trials, 57 participants). However, there was
substantial uncertainty regarding the size of the effect of paroxetine due to the
small number of studies providing data on clinically diverse patient samples. The
second primary outcome measure was reduction of anxiety symptom severity.
Although study investigators reported that buspirone (one trial) was superior to 
placebo in reducing the severity of anxiety symptoms over 12 weeks, no evidence
of efficacy was observed for paroxetine (mean difference (MD) -14.70, 95% CI
-33.00 to 3.60, 2 trials, 44 participants) and sertraline (one trial). Paroxetine
appeared to be equally effective in reducing the severity of post-traumatic
stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms as the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine in
one RCT. The maximal reduction in anxiety disorder symptom severity was achieved 
after six weeks with paroxetine (two RCTs) and 12 weeks with buspirone (one RCT),
with maintenance of medication efficacy extending to 16 with paroxetine and 24
weeks with buspirone. There was no evidence of an effect for any of the
medications tested on abstinence from alcohol use or depression symptoms. There
was very low quality evidence that paroxetine was well tolerated, based on
drop-out due to treatment-emergent adverse effects. Nevertheless, levels of
treatment discontinuation were high, with 43.1% of the participants in the
studies withdrawing from medication treatment. Certain adverse effects, such as
sexual problems, were commonly reported after treatment with paroxetine and
sertraline.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The evidence-base for the effectiveness of medication in
treating anxiety disorders and comorbid alcohol use disorders is currently
inconclusive. There was a small amount of evidence for the efficacy of
medication, but this was limited and of very low quality. The majority of the
data for the efficacy and tolerability of medication were for SSRIs; there were
insufficient data to establish differences in treatment efficacy between
medication classes or patient subgroups. There was a small amount of very low
quality evidence that medication was well tolerated. There was no evidence that
alcohol use was responsive to medication.Large, rigorously conducted RCTs would
help supplement the small evidence-base for the efficacy and tolerability of
pharmacotherapy for anxiety and comorbid alcohol use disorders. Further research 
on patient subgroups who may benefit from pharmacological treatment, as well as
novel pharmacological interventions, is warranted.

PMID: 25601826  [PubMed - in process]


646. Crit Care. 2015 Jan 20;19(1):15. [Epub ahead of print]

Optimal site for ultrasound-guided venous catheterisation in paediatric patients:
an observational study to investigate predictors for catheterisation success, and
a randomised controlled study to determine the most successful site.

Takeshita J, Nakayama Y, Nakajima Y, Sessler DI, Ogawa S, Sawa T, Mizobe T.

IntroductionVenous catheterisation in paediatric patients can be technically
challenging. We examined factors affecting catheterisation of invisible and
impalpable peripheral veins in children and evaluated the best site for
ultrasound-guided catheterisation.MethodsSystolic pressure, age, sex, and
American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status were determined in 96
children weighing < 20 kg. Vein diameter and subcutaneous depth were measured
with ultrasound. Logistic regression was used to evaluate the contribution of
these factors to cannulation success with (n¿=¿65) or without (n¿=¿31) ultrasound
guidance. Thereafter, we randomised 196 patients for venous catheter insertion in
the dorsal veins of the hand, the cephalic vein in the forearm, or the great
saphenous vein. Success rates and vein diameters were evaluated using Dunn tests;
insertion time, using Kaplan¿Meier cumulative incidence
analysis.ResultsIndependent predictors of catheterisation were ultrasound
guidance (odds ratio (OR)¿=¿7.3, 95% confidence interval (CI): 2.0 to 26.0,
P¿=¿0.002), vein diameter (OR¿=¿1.5 per 0.1 mm increase in diameter, 95% CI: 1.1 
to 2.0, P¿=¿0.007), and ASA physical status (OR¿=¿0.4 per status 1 increase, 95% 
CI: 0.2 to 0.9, P¿=¿0.03). Cephalic veins were significantly larger (cephalic
diameter 1.8 mm, P¿=¿0.001 versus saphenous 1.5 mm; P <0.001 versus dorsal
1.5 mm). Catheterisation success rates were significantly better at the cephalic 
vein than either the dorsal hand or saphenous vein (cephalic 95%, 95% CI: 89 to
100%, P <0.001 versus dorsal 69%, 95% CI: 56 to 82%; P¿=¿0.03 versus saphenous
75%, 95% CI: 64 to 86%).ConclusionsThe cephalic vein in the proximal forearm
appears to be the most appropriate initial site for ultrasound-guided
catheterisation in invisible and impalpable veins of paediatric patients.Trial
registry numberUMIN Clinical Trials Registry as UMIN000010961. Registered on 14
June 2013.

PMID: 25600063  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


647. Curr HIV/AIDS Rep. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Antiretrovirals for Primary HIV Prevention: the Current Status of Pre- and
Post-exposure Prophylaxis.

Krakower DS(1), Jain S, Mayer KH.

Author information: 
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA,
dkrakowe@bidmc.harvard.edu.

In light of the 2 million HIV infections that occur globally each year, there is 
a need to optimize strategies that integrate biomedical and behavioral approaches
to HIV prevention. Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) immediately after acute
high-risk exposures and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for those who engage in
recurrent high-risk behaviors are promising bio-behavioral approaches to
decreasing HIV transmission. Guidelines have recommended PEP for occupational and
non-occupational exposures for over 15 years, but uptake of PEP has been limited,
partly as a result of insufficient awareness of this intervention among persons
at highest risk for acquiring HIV. However, since the publication of large
randomized clinical trials demonstrating the efficacy of PrEP, and the
dissemination of guidelines endorsing its use, there is a renewed focus on
bio-behavioral prevention. Numerous studies have recently assessed the
acceptability of bio-behavioral prevention programs among diverse populations or 
described experiences implementing these programs in "real-world" settings. As
research and clinical data informing optimal utilization of PEP and PrEP are
rapidly accumulating, this review provides a timely summary of recent progress in
bio-behavioral prevention. By contextualizing the most noteworthy recent findings
regarding PEP and PrEP, this review seeks to inform the successful implementation
of these promising prevention approaches.

PMID: 25600106  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


648. Diabetes Care. 2015 Jan 20. pii: dc141416. [Epub ahead of print]

The Effect of a Diabetes-Specific Cognitive Behavioral Treatment Program (DIAMOS)
for Patients With Diabetes and Subclinical Depression: Results of a Randomized
Controlled Trial.

Hermanns N(1), Schmitt A(2), Gahr A(2), Herder C(3), Nowotny B(4), Roden M(5),
Ohmann C(6), Kruse J(7), Haak T(8), Kulzer B(9).

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute Diabetes Academy Mergentheim, Bad Mergentheim, Germany
Diabetes Centre Mergentheim, Bad Mergentheim, Germany Institute of Clinical
Psychology and Psychotherapy, University of Bamberg, Bamberg, Germany
hermanns@diabetes-zentrum.de. (2)Research Institute Diabetes Academy Mergentheim,
Bad Mergentheim, Germany. (3)Institute for Clinical Diabetology, German Diabetes 
Center at Heinrich-Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany German Center for
Diabetes Research, Partner Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. (4)Institute for
Clinical Diabetology, German Diabetes Center at Heinrich-Heine University,
Düsseldorf, Germany Department of Endocrinology and Diabetology, Heinrich-Heine
University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. (5)Institute for Clinical
Diabetology, German Diabetes Center at Heinrich-Heine University, Düsseldorf,
Germany German Center for Diabetes Research, Partner Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf,
Germany Department of Endocrinology and Diabetology, Heinrich-Heine University
Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. (6)Coordination Center for Clinical Trials,
University of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. (7)Klinik für Psychosomatik und
Psychotherapie des Universitätsklinikum Giessen und Marburg,
Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen und Philipps-Universität Marburg, Giessen,
Germany. (8)Research Institute Diabetes Academy Mergentheim, Bad Mergentheim,
Germany Diabetes Centre Mergentheim, Bad Mergentheim, Germany. (9)Research
Institute Diabetes Academy Mergentheim, Bad Mergentheim, Germany Diabetes Centre 
Mergentheim, Bad Mergentheim, Germany Institute of Clinical Psychology and
Psychotherapy, University of Bamberg, Bamberg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Subclinical depression is one of the most frequent mental
comorbidities in patients with diabetes and is associated with a poorer long-term
prognosis. Since there is a lack of specific intervention concepts for this
patient group, a self-management-oriented group program (DIAMOS [Diabetes
Motivation Strengthening]) was newly developed and evaluated in a randomized
trial.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: DIAMOS is composed of cognitive behavioral
interventions aiming at the reduction of diabetes distress. The active control
group (CG) received diabetes education. The primary outcome was depressive
symptoms. Secondary outcomes were diabetes distress, well-being, self-care
behavior, diabetes acceptance, diabetes treatment satisfaction, HbA1c level, and 
subclinical inflammation.
RESULTS: Two hundred fourteen participants (mean age 43.3 ± 13.3 years, female
sex 56.5%, type 2 diabetes 34.1%, mean diabetes duration 14.2 ± 10.5 years, HbA1c
level 8.9 ± 1.8%, BMI 28.7 ± 71 kg/m(2)) were randomized. The 12-month follow-up 
revealed a significantly stronger reduction of depressive symptoms (Center for
Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale score) in the DIAMOS group compared with
the CG (Δ3.9 [95% CI 0.6-7.3], P = 0.021). Of the secondary variables, the
Patient Health Questionnaire (Δ1.7 [95% CI 0.2-3.2], P = 0.023), Problem Areas in
Diabetes scale (Δ-8.2 [95% CI 3.1-13.3], P = 0.002), and Diabetes Distress Scale 
scores (Δ-0.3 [95% CI 0.1-0.5], P = 0.012) displayed significant treatment
effects. Moreover, the risk of incident major depression in the DIAMOS group was 
significantly reduced (odds ratio 0.63 [95% CI 0.42-0.96], P = 0.028).
Inflammatory variables were not substantially affected.
CONCLUSIONS: DIAMOS is more effective in lowering depressive symptoms and
diabetes-related distress in diabetic patients with subclinical depression.
DIAMOS also has a preventive effect with respect to the incidence of major
depression.

© 2015 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as long
as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, and the
work is not altered.

PMID: 25605812  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


649. Drugs. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Ruxolitinib: A Review of Its Use in Patients with Myelofibrosis.

Plosker GL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay 0754, Auckland, New Zealand,
demail@springer.com.

Ruxolitinib (Jakavi(®), Jakafi(®)) is an orally administered inhibitor of Janus
kinases (JAK) 1 and 2 used in the management of patients with myelofibrosis.
Clinical trials with ruxolitinib, notably the phase III COMFORT-I and -II studies
and their extensions, have demonstrated marked and durable clinical benefits in
terms of reductions in splenomegaly and disease-related symptoms in patients with
intermediate-2 or high-risk myelofibrosis. Ruxolitinib was also associated with
improvements in health-related quality of life and functioning. Despite the
crossover of patients in control groups to ruxolitinib, results of the COMFORT
studies and their extensions indicate a survival advantage for patients
randomized to ruxolitinib. The beneficial effects of ruxolitinib were observed
across subgroups of myelofibrosis patients, including those not harbouring the
JAK2V617F mutation. Improvements in splenomegaly and disease-related symptoms
were also observed in a trial in Japanese/Asian patients with myelofibrosis and
in myelofibrosis patients with a low baseline platelet count. Dose-related
anaemia and thrombocytopenia were common in clinical trials with ruxolitinib, but
rarely led to discontinuation of therapy and were managed with dosage
modifications and/or transfusions of packed red blood cells. In addition to the
USA and EU, ruxolitinib is now approved in a number of other countries, including
Japan, and remains the only approved drug for the treatment of myelofibrosis,
although various other agents are undergoing investigation. Appropriate
monitoring and dosage titration are important to achieve optimal clinical
benefits of ruxolitinib. Further research, including studies evaluating
ruxolitinib-based combination therapy, may also help to optimise treatment.

PMID: 25601187  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


650. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical pharmacology of melatonin in the treatment of tinnitus: a review.

Miroddi M(1), Bruno R, Galletti F, Calapai F, Navarra M, Gangemi S, Calapai G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina,
Policlinico "G. Martino", Messina, Italy.

PURPOSE: We performed a review with the purpose to summarise, analyse and discuss
the evidence provided by clinical studies evaluating effectiveness of melatonin
in the cure of tinnitus. Due to the fact that there is no satisfactory treatment 
for tinnitus, clinical research has explored new therapeutic approaches.
METHODS: A search of Pubmed, Medline, Embase, Central and Google Scholar was
conducted to find trials published prior March 2014 on melatonin in the treatment
of tinnitus. Design of the studies, randomization, allocation concealment
procedures and diagnostic instruments (scales for tinnitus evaluation) were
critical evaluated.
RESULTS: Five clinical studies have been included. Three of them tested
effectiveness of melatonin alone, the remaining two along with sulpiride and
sulodexide respectively. Considered clinical trials adopted various experimental 
designs: single arm, randomised placebo-controlled and randomised
placebo-controlled followed by crossover. These studies were characterised by
several methodological weaknesses.
CONCLUSION: Confirmation of melatonin clinical effectiveness in the treatment of 
tinnitus cannot be given in the light of the biases observed in the considered
evidence. Melatonin seems to improve sleep disturbance linked to tinnitus.

PMID: 25597877  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


651. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2015 Jan 20:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Paradigm shift in activity assessment of IgA nephropathy - optimizing the next
generation of diagnostic and therapeutic maneuvers via glycan targeting.

Suzuki Y(1), Suzuki H, Yasutake J, Tomino Y.

Author information: 
(1)Juntendo University Faculty of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, Department of
Internal Medicine , Tokyo , Japan yusuke@juntendo.ac.jp.

Introduction: IgA nephropathy (IgAN) is the most common glomerular disease and
has a poor prognosis. Appropriate therapeutic strategies are not currently
available due to the lack of information regarding IgAN pathogenesis and the
absence of appropriate tools to assess disease activity in IgAN, a long-term
chronic disease. However, recent evidence revealed that aberrantly glycosylated
serum IgA1, mostly galactose-deficient IgA1 (Gd-IgA1) and immune complexes (ICs) 
with autoantibodies against glycan-containing epitopes on Gd-IgA1 are essential
effector molecules. Areas covered: Assessing disease activity by urinalysis/renal
biopsy has some limitations, resulting in conflicts regarding the efficacy of
possible IgAN-specific therapies. We summarize the characteristics and molecular 
basis of Gd-IgA1 and related ICs, their clinical application for activity
assessment and early diagnosis, and discuss glycan as a potent target of
therapeutic agents based on glycan engineering in IgAN. Expert opinion: Recently,
Gd-IgA1 and related ICs have shown clinical value for disease activity assessment
and IgAN diagnosis. This suggests a paradigm shift in IgAN treatment thus
allowing development of appropriate clinical trials of patients with IgAN stages 
and objective evaluation of the efficacy of future treatments. Early screening
and diagnosis may increase therapeutic options, including quantitative regulation
of nephritogenic Gd-IgA1 using therapeutic antibodies and selective depletion of 
Gd-IgA1-producing cells via glycan engineering.

PMID: 25604055  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


652. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2015 Jan 20:1-13. [Epub ahead of print]

Preactivated thiomers: their role in drug delivery.

Ijaz M(1), Bernkop-Schnürch A.

Author information: 
(1)University of Innsbruck, Institute of Pharmacy, Center for Chemistry and
Biomedicine, Center for Molecular Bioscience (CMBI), Department of Pharmaceutical
Technology , Innrain 80/82, 6020 Innsbruck , Austria +43 512 507 58601 ; +43 512 
507 58699 ; andreas.bernkop@uibk.ac.at.

Introduction: Since thiolated polymers - known as thiomers - have entered the
pharmaceutical arena in the late 1990s, more and more academic and industrial
research groups have started to work with these promising polymeric excipients.
Meanwhile, various thiomers are the subject of clinical trials and the first
product based on thiolated chitosan will reach the market in 2015. Due to the
formation of disulfide bonds with mercaptopyridine substructures, thiol groups of
thiomers are on the one hand more reactive and on the other hand are protected
toward oxidation. These so-called preactivated thiomers representing the second
generation of thiomers are subject of this review. Areas covered: Within this
review, preactivated thiomers are classified and their mode of action is
described. Furthermore, different synthetic pathways, purification and chemical
characterization methods of preactivated thiomers are explained. Their properties
including mucoadhesive, permeation-enhancing, efflux pump inhibitory and in situ 
gelling properties are described. In addition, various formulations based on
preactivated thiomers are introduced. Expert opinion: The first-generation
thiomers have already shown great potential resulting in various product
developments. Preactivated thiomers - representing the second generation of
thiomers - offer the additional advantage of even comparatively more reactive
sulfhydryl ligands and of stability toward oxidation. According to this, they are
promising novel polymeric excipients for various applications.

PMID: 25604394  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


653. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2015 Jan 20:1-25. [Epub ahead of print]

Nanocarrier-mediated drugs targeting cancer stem cells: an emerging delivery
approach.

Malhi S(1), Gu X.

Author information: 
(1)University of Manitoba, College of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences , 750 
McDermot Avenue Winnipeg, MB R3E 0H5 , Canada.

Introduction: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) play an important role in the development 
of drug resistance, metastasis and recurrence. Current conventional therapies do 
not commonly target CSCs. Nanocarrier-based delivery systems targeting cancer
cells have entered a new era of treatment, where specific targeting to CSCs may
offer superior outcomes to efficient cancer therapies. Areas covered: This review
discusses the involvement of CSCs in tumor progression and relevant mechanisms
associated with CSCs resistance to conventional chemo- and radio-therapies. It
highlights CSCs-targeted strategies that are either under evaluation or could be 
explored in the near future, with a focus on various nanocarrier-based delivery
systems of drugs and nucleic acids to CSCs. Novel nanocarriers targeting CSCs are
presented in a cancer-specific way to provide a current perspective on anti-CSCs 
therapeutics. Expert opinion: The field of CSCs-targeted therapeutics is still
emerging with a few small molecules and macromolecules currently proving efficacy
in clinical trials. However considering the complexities of CSCs and existing
delivery difficulties in conventional anticancer therapies, CSC-specific delivery
systems would face tremendous technical and clinical challenges.
Nanocarrier-based approaches have demonstrated significant potential in specific 
drug delivery and targeting; their success in CSCs-targeted drug delivery would
not only significantly enhance anticancer treatment but also address current
difficulties associated with cancer resistance, metastasis and recurrence.

PMID: 25601619  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


654. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2015 Jan 20:1-11. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy and adverse effects of drugs used to treat adult cystic fibrosis.

Chopra R(1), Paul L, Manickam R, Aronow WS, Maguire GP.

Author information: 
(1)New York Medical College/Westchester Medical Center, Division of Pulmonary,
Critical Care and Sleep Medicine , 100 Woods Road, Valhalla, NY 10595 , USA +1
914 493 7518 ; +1 914 493 8130 ; ravichopra77@gmail.com.

Introduction: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease and is the
most commonly seen monogenetic disease in Caucasians. The disease has various
manifestations resulting from the abnormal thick secretions, most common being
chronic lung infection and airway obstruction. Many new promising drugs have
appeared on the horizon over the years. This review here is an attempt to bring
together the various treatments being used to prolong and enhance the quality of 
life of CF patients. Areas covered: A literature review of published as well as
ongoing clinical trials, meta-analysis and systematic reviews regarding the drugs
used in CF management was carried out using PubMed and Ovid databases. Expert
opinion: New concepts have been formed and some positive results in this
direction have already led to the approval of cystic fibrosis transmembrane
conductance regulator potentiator drug. Gene therapy and stem cell therapy are
under development. The current therapies such as dornase alfa and pancreatic
enzymes targeting the symptoms continue to evolve as they play an important
complementary role. Development of new simple and cost-effective markers, which
help assess the efficacy and safety of these constantly emerging new drugs, is
also being investigated.

PMID: 25604518  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


655. Heart. 2015 Jan 20. pii: heartjnl-2014-307057. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2014-307057.
[Epub ahead of print]

Systemic inflammatory response syndrome after transcatheter or surgical aortic
valve replacement.

Lindman BR(1), Goldstein JS(2), Nassif ME(1), Zajarias A(1), Novak E(1),
Tibrewala A(2), Vatterott AM(1), Lawler C(1), Damiano RJ(3), Moon MR(3), Lawton
JS(3), Lasala JM(1), Maniar HS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA. (2)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA. (3)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

OBJECTIVE: An inflammatory response after cardiac surgery is associated with
worse clinical outcomes, but recent trials to attenuate it have been neutral. We 
evaluated the association between systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) 
and mortality after transcatheter (TAVR) and surgical aortic valve replacement
(SAVR) for aortic stenosis (AS) and evaluated whether diabetes influenced this
relationship.
METHODS: Patients (n=747) with severe AS treated with TAVR (n=264) or SAVR
(n=483) between January 2008 and December 2013 were included and 37% had diabetes
mellitus. SIRS was defined by four criteria 12-48 h after aortic valve
replacement (AVR): (1) white blood cell count <4 or >12; (2) heart rate >90; (3) 
temperature <36 or >38°C; or (4) respiratory rate >20. Severe SIRS was defined as
meeting all four criteria. The primary endpoint was 6-month all-cause mortality
(60 deaths occurred by 6 months). Inverse probability weighting (IPW) was
performed on 44 baseline and procedural variables to minimise confounding.
RESULTS: Severe SIRS developed in 6% of TAVR patients and 11% of SAVR patients
(p=0.02). Six-month mortality tended to be higher in those with severe SIRS
(15.5%) versus those without (7.4%) (p=0.07). After adjustment, severe SIRS was
associated with higher 6-month mortality (IPW adjusted HR 2.77, 95% CI 2.04 to
3.76, p<0.001). Moreover, severe SIRS was more strongly associated with increased
mortality in diabetic (IPW adjusted HR 4.12, 95% CI 2.69 to 6.31, p<0.001) than
non-diabetic patients (IPW adjusted HR 1.74, 95% CI 1.10 to 2.73, p=0.02)
(interaction p=0.007). The adverse effect of severe SIRS on mortality was similar
after TAVR and SAVR.
CONCLUSIONS: Severe SIRS was associated with a higher mortality after SAVR or
TAVR. It occurred more commonly after SAVR and had a greater effect on mortality 
in diabetic patients. These findings may have implications for treatment
decisions in patients with AS, may help explain differences in outcomes between
different AVR approaches and identify diabetic patients as a high-risk subgroup
to target in clinical trials with therapies to attenuate SIRS.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25605654  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


656. Int J Dermatol. 2015 Jan 20. doi: 10.1111/ijd.12790. [Epub ahead of print]

The role of vitamin D in psoriasis: a review.

Soleymani T(1), Hung T, Soung J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California, Irvine School of
Medicine, Irvine, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Psoriasis is a common, chronic autoimmune inflammatory 
skin disorder, which has potential systemic complications and is clinically
defined by sharply demarcated, erythematous patches and plaques covered by a
characteristic silvery white scale. Topical corticosteroids have widely been
regarded as the mainstay first line of treatment. Recently, topical vitamin D
analogs have been added to the first-line treatment repertoire as well, either as
monotherapy or in combination with topical steroids due to synergistic,
complementary effectiveness. In this paper, we review the role of vitamin D in
the pathophysiology and treatment of psoriasis.
METHODS: A comprehensive search of the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, and PUBMED
databases were performed to identify relevant basic science and clinical trial
literature investigating the role of vitamin D in psoriasis. Primary endpoints in
clinical trials were largely based on clinical improvement as assessed by the
psoriasis area severity index score or physician's global assessment.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The role of vitamin D in psoriasis is complex and
extensive. Oral and topical vitamin D therapies provide comparable efficacies to 
corticosteroids when used as monotherapy and may be superior when used in
combination with a potent topical steroid. Additionally topical vitamin D analogs
demonstrate a favorable safety profile with "steroid-sparing" effects. Thus,
topical vitamin D derivatives should be considered an indispensable component of 
the current physician's arsenal in the treatment of psoriasis.

© 2015 The International Society of Dermatology.

PMID: 25601579  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


657. Invest New Drugs. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

The FLT3 and PDGFR inhibitor crenolanib is a substrate of the multidrug
resistance protein ABCB1 but does not inhibit transport function at
pharmacologically relevant concentrations.

Mathias TJ(1), Natarajan K, Shukla S, Doshi KA, Singh ZN, Ambudkar SV, Baer MR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Maryland Greenebaum Cancer Center, 22 South Greene Street,
Baltimore, MD, 21201, USA.

Background Crenolanib (crenolanib besylate, 4-piperidinamine,
1-[2-[5-[(3-methyl-3-oxetanyl)methoxy]-1H-benzimidazol-1-yl]-8-quinolinyl]-,
monobenzenesulfonate) is a potent and specific type I inhibitor of fms-like
tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) that targets the active kinase conformation and is
effective against FLT3 with internal tandem duplication (ITD) with point
mutations induced by, and conferring resistance to, type II FLT3 inhibitors in
acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells. Crenolanib is also an inhibitor of
platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha and beta and is in clinical trials 
in both gastrointestinal stromal tumors and gliomas. Methods We tested crenolanib
interactions with the multidrug resistance-associated ATP-binding cassette
proteins ABCB1 (P-glycoprotein), ABCG2 (breast cancer resistance protein) and
ABCC1 (multidrug resistance-associated protein 1), which are expressed on AML
cells and other cancer cells and are important components of the blood-brain
barrier. Results We found that crenolanib is a substrate of ABCB1, as evidenced
by approximate five-fold resistance of ABCB1-overexpressing cells to crenolanib, 
reversal of this resistance by the ABCB1-specific inhibitor PSC-833 and
stimulation of ABCB1 ATPase activity by crenolanib. In contrast, crenolanib was
not a substrate of ABCG2 or ABCC1. Additionally, it did not inhibit substrate
transport by ABCB1, ABCG2 or ABCC1, at pharmacologically relevant concentrations.
Finally, incubation of the FLT3-ITD AML cell lines MV4-11 and MOLM-14 with
crenolanib at a pharmacologically relevant concentration of 500 nM did not induce
upregulation of ABCB1 cell surface expression. Conclusions Thus ABCB1 expression 
confers resistance to crenolanib and likely limits crenolanib penetration of the 
central nervous system, but crenolanib at therapeutic concentrations should not
alter cellular exposure to ABC protein substrate chemotherapy drugs.

PMID: 25597754  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


658. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Jan 20;56(2):1014-22. doi: 10.1167/iovs.14-15061.

A low-molecular-weight oil cleaner for removal of leftover silicone oil
intraocular tamponade.

Chan YK(1), Wong D(2), Yeung HK(2), Man PK(3), Shum HC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong Department of Ophthalmology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of
Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Li 
Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. (3)Department
of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong. (4)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong HKU-Shenzhen Institute of Research and Innovation
(HKU-SIRI), Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.

PURPOSE: Silicone oil (SO) has been used as a long-term intraocular tamponade in 
treating retinal diseases for more than half a decade. However, its propensity to
form tiny SO droplets is associated with a number of complications. Currently
there is no effective way to remove such droplets from the eye cavity. In this
work, a novel cleaner was developed for effective removal of these droplets.
METHODS: The cleaner promotes the formation of an oil-in-water-in-oil (O/W/O)
double-emulsion that consists of the unwanted droplets as the innermost oil
phase. The cleaner's ability to encapsulate SO droplets was tested using both in 
vitro microdevices and ex vivo porcine eye models. The efficiency of the cleaner 
in removing the SO droplets was quantified using the three-dimensional (3D)
printed eye model. Both the volatility and in vitro cytotoxicity of the cleaner
were evaluated on three retinal cell lines.
RESULTS: Cleaner 1.0 is volatile and has an evaporation rate of 0.14 mL/h at room
temperature. The formation of O/W/O double-emulsion indicates the encapsulation
of SO droplets by the cleaner. In the 3D printed eye model, rinsing with cleaner 
1.0 led to a significant reduction of leftover SO droplets compared with 1×
phosphate-buffered saline (PBS; P < 0.05; n = 6). Cleaner 1.0 did not cause
significant cell death (3%-6%) compared with balance salt solution (BSS; 1%-3%)
in all three cell lines. The reduction in the cell viability due to cleaner 1.0, 
relative to that of BSS, was significant only in ARPE-19 cells (27%; P < 0.05)
but not in the other two cell lines (8% and 17%, respectively; P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The double-emulsification approach was effective in removing remnant
droplets from the eye cavities, and the cleaner was compatible with common cell
types encountered in human eyes. The mechanism of toxicity of the proposed
cleaner is still unknown, therefore, further in vivo animal tests are needed for 
full evaluation of the physiological response before the proposed cleaner can be 
advanced to clinical trials for retinal surgeries.

Copyright 2015 The Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology, Inc.

PMID: 25604683  [PubMed - in process]


659. J Biomed Inform. 2015 Jan 20. pii: S1532-0464(15)00007-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jbi.2015.01.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Visual aggregate analysis of eligibility features of clinical trials.

He Z(1), Carini S(2), Sim I(2), Weng C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032,
USA. (2)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of California, San
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. (3)Department of Biomedical Informatics,
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. Electronic address:
cw2384@cumc.columbia.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a method for profiling the collective populations targeted 
for recruitment by multiple clinical studies addressing the same medical
condition using one eligibility feature each time.
METHODS: Using a previously published database COMPACT as the backend, we
designed a scalable method for visual aggregate analysis of clinical trial
eligibility features. This method consists of four modules for eligibility
feature frequency analysis, query builder, distribution analysis, and
visualization, respectively. This method is capable of analyzing (1) frequently
used qualitative and quantitative features for recruiting subjects for a selected
medical condition, (2) distribution of study enrollment on consecutive value
points or value intervals of each quantitative feature, and (3) distribution of
studies on the boundary values, permissible value ranges, and value range widths 
of each feature. All analysis results were visualized using Google Charts API.
Five recruited potential users assessed the usefulness of this method for
identifying common patterns in any selected eligibility feature for clinical
trial participant selection.
RESULTS: We implemented this method as a Web-based analytical system called VITTA
(Visual Analysis Tool of Clinical Study Target Populations). We illustrated the
functionality of VITTA using two sample queries involving quantitative features
BMI and HbA1c for conditions "hypertension" and "Type 2 diabetes", respectively. 
The recruited potential users rated the user-perceived usefulness of VITTA with
an average score of 86.4/100.
CONCLUSIONS: We contributed a novel aggregate analysis method to enable the
interrogation of common patterns in quantitative eligibility criteria and the
collective target populations of multiple related clinical studies. A
larger-scale study is warranted to formally assess the usefulness of VITTA among 
clinical investigators and sponsors in various therapeutic areas.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25615940  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


660. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Jan 20. pii: jnnp-2014-308724. doi:
10.1136/jnnp-2014-308724. [Epub ahead of print]

Transthyretin (ATTR) amyloidosis: clinical spectrum, molecular pathogenesis and
disease-modifying treatments.

Sekijima Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine (Neurology and Rheumatology), Shinshu University School
of Medicine, Matsumoto, Japan Institute for Biomedical Sciences, Shinshu
University, Matsumoto, Japan.

Transthyretin (ATTR) amyloidosis is a life-threatening, gain-of-toxic-function
disease characterised by extracellular deposition of amyloid fibrils composed of 
transthyretin (TTR). TTR protein destabilised by TTR gene mutation is prone to
dissociate from its native tetramer to monomer, and to then misfold and aggregate
into amyloid fibrils, resulting in autosomal dominant hereditary amyloidosis,
including familial amyloid polyneuropathy, familial amyloid cardiomyopathy and
familial leptomeningeal amyloidosis. Analogous misfolding of wild-type TTR
results in senile systemic amyloidosis, now termed wild-type ATTR amyloidosis,
characterised by acquired amyloid disease in the elderly. With the availability
of genetic, biochemical and immunohistochemical diagnostic tests, patients with
ATTR amyloidosis have been found in many nations; however, misdiagnosis is still 
common and considerable time is required before correct diagnosis in many cases. 
The current standard first-line treatment for hereditary ATTR amyloidosis is
liver transplantation, which allows suppression of the main source of variant
TTR. However, large numbers of patients are not suitable transplant candidates.
Recently, the clinical effects of TTR tetramer stabilisers, diflunisal and
tafamidis, were demonstrated in randomised clinical trials, and tafamidis has
been approved for treatment of hereditary ATTR amyloidosis in European countries 
and in Japan. Moreover, antisense oligonucleotides and small interfering RNAs for
suppression of variant and wild-type TTR synthesis are promising therapeutic
approaches to ameliorate ATTR amyloidosis and are currently in phase III clinical
trials. These newly developed therapies are expected to be effective for not only
hereditary ATTR amyloidosis but also wild-type ATTR amyloidosis.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25604431  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


661. J Oncol Pract. 2015 Jan 20. pii: JOP.2014.001073. [Epub ahead of print]

Population-Based Assessment of Emergency Room Visits and Hospitalizations Among
Women Receiving Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Early Breast Cancer.

Enright K(1), Grunfeld E(2), Yun L(2), Moineddin R(2), Ghannam M(2), Dent S(2),
Eisen A(2), Trudeau M(2), Kaizer L(2), Earle C(2), Krzyzanowska MK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Trillium Health Partners-Credit Valley Hospital, Mississauga; Institute for
Clinical Evaluative Sciences; Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre; Cancer Care
Ontario; Princess Margaret Cancer Centre; University of Toronto; Ontario
Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto; and Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre,
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada katherine.enright@trilliumhealthpartners.ca. (2)Trillium 
Health Partners-Credit Valley Hospital, Mississauga; Institute for Clinical
Evaluative Sciences; Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre; Cancer Care Ontario;
Princess Margaret Cancer Centre; University of Toronto; Ontario Institute for
Cancer Research, Toronto; and Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre, Ottawa, Ontario,
Canada.

PURPOSE: Adjuvant chemotherapy is considered standard care for patients with
lymph node (LN) -positive and high-risk LN-negative early breast cancer (EBC).
Although chemotherapy-associated toxicities are documented in clinical trials,
the impact of toxicities on emergency room (ER) visits and hospitalizations (ER +
Hs) at a population level with contemporary chemotherapy is unknown. We undertook
a population-based study of ER + Hs in patients with EBC receiving adjuvant
chemotherapy compared with noncancer controls (NCCs).
METHODS: All patients diagnosed with EBC between January 2007 and December 2009
in Ontario, Canada, were identified from the Ontario Cancer Registry. Patient
records were linked deterministically to provincial health care databases to
provide comprehensive medical follow-up. All patients received ≥ one cycle of
adjuvant chemotherapy. Patient cases of EBC (n = 8,359) were matched to NCCs (n =
8,359) on age, comorbidity, and geographic location. ER + Hs within 30 days of
chemotherapy were identified. If the primary reason for the visit was a common
chemotherapy toxicity, the visit was considered chemotherapy associated.
All-cause and chemotherapy-associated visits were compared between patient cases 
and controls. Logistic regression models were used to identify covariates
associated with ER + Hs.
RESULTS: The proportion of patients with at least one ER + H was significantly
higher in patients with EBC undergoing chemotherapy compared with NCCs (43.4% v
9.4%; P < .001). Patients with EBC were also more likely to have multiple ER + Hs
(17.9% v 2.4%; P < .001). On multivariable analysis, comorbidity, receiving a
regimen containing docetaxel, and certain geographic regions were associated with
increased odds of ER + Hs.
CONCLUSION: ER + Hs are common among patients with EBC receiving chemotherapy and
significantly higher than among controls. This represents a potential opportunity
for quality improvement.

Copyright © 2015 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

PMID: 25604597  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


662. JAMA. 2015 Jan 20;313(3):285-93. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.17426.

Resective epilepsy surgery for drug-resistant focal epilepsy: a review.

Jobst BC(1), Cascino GD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth,
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire. (2)Department of
Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

IMPORTANCE: Epilepsy surgery is indicated for patients with focal seizures who do
not respond to appropriate antiepileptic drug therapy consisting of 2 or more
medications.
OBJECTIVES: To review resective surgery outcomes for focal epilepsy, to identify 
which patients benefit the most, and to discuss why epilepsy surgery may not be
universally accepted.
EVIDENCE REVIEW: Medline and Cochrane databases were searched between January
1993 and June 2014 for randomized clinical trials, meta-analyses, systematic
reviews, and large retrospective case series (>300 patients) using Medical
Subject Headings and indexed text terms. Fifty-five articles were included.
Subpopulations and prognostic factors were identified. Systematic reviews for
cognitive, psychiatric, quality-of-life, and psychosocial outcomes were included.
FINDINGS: Two randomized clinical trials enrolling 118 patients with temporal
lobe epilepsy found greater freedom from seizures with surgery when compared with
continued medical treatment (58% vs 8% [n = 80] and 73% vs 0% [n = 38],
P < .001). Nine systematic reviews and 2 large case series of medically
refractory patients treated with surgery reported seizure-free outcomes in 34% to
74% of patients (median, 62.4%). The remainder of systematic reviews and
meta-analyses examined subpopulations. Epilepsy surgery was less effective when
there were extratemporal lesions, the epilepsy was not associated with a
structural lesion, or both. Seizure-free outcomes were similar between children
and adults. Hippocampal sclerosis and benign tumors were associated with better
outcomes relative to other pathologies. Similar procedures such as selective
amygdalohippocampectomy and temporal lobectomy for temporal lobe epilepsy were
associated with subtle differences in seizure and neuropsychological outcome.
There is low perioperative mortality (0.1%-0.5%) from epilepsy surgery. The most 
frequent neurologic complication is visual field defect occurring from temporal
lobe resection. Quality of life improved after surgery but improved the most in
patients who were seizure-free after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Epilepsy surgery reduced seizure activity in
randomized clinical trials when compared with continued medical therapy.
Long-term cognitive, psychiatric, psychosocial, and quality-of-life outcomes were
less well defined. Despite good outcomes from high-quality clinical trials,
referrals of patients with seizures refractory to medical treatment remain
infrequent.

PMID: 25602999  [PubMed - in process]


663. Lancet Respir Med. 2015 Jan 20. pii: S2213-2600(15)00008-9. doi:
10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00008-9. [Epub ahead of print]

The effect of an electronic monitoring device with audiovisual reminder function 
on adherence to inhaled corticosteroids and school attendance in children with
asthma: a randomised controlled trial.

Chan AH(1), Stewart AW(2), Harrison J(3), Camargo CA Jr(4), Black PN(5), Mitchell
EA(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. Electronic address: a.chan@auckland.ac.nz.
(2)Epidemiology & Biostatistics, School of Population Health, Faculty of Medical 
and Health Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (3)School of 
Pharmacy, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand. (4)Department of Emergency Medicine, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. (5)Department of Pharmacology 
and Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of 
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (6)Department of Pediatrics, Child and Youth
Health, School of Medicine, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Suboptimum adherence to preventive asthma treatment is associated
with substantial morbidity and mortality, yet adherence often remains poor. We
aimed to investigate whether use of an inhaler with audiovisual reminders leads
to improved adherence and asthma outcomes in school-aged children who presented
to the emergency department with an asthma exacerbation.
METHODS: We did a randomised controlled trial in patients aged 6-15 years who
attended the regional emergency department in Auckland, New Zealand with an
asthma exacerbation and were on regular inhaled corticosteroids. Using a simple, 
unrestricted block randomisation with block sizes of 200, we randomly assigned
patients to receive an electronic monitoring device for use with their preventer 
inhaler with the audiovisual reminder functions either enabled to support
adherence to inhaled corticosteroids (intervention group) or disabled (control
group). Participants were followed up every 2 months for 6 months. The primary
outcomes were adherence to preventive inhaled corticosteroids and number of days 
absent from school for any reason. Asthma control was assessed as a secondary
outcome. All analyses were done in the intention-to-treat population. This trial 
is registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, number
ACTRN12613001353785.
FINDINGS: The study took place between May 10, 2010, and Feb 26, 2012. We
randomly assigned 220 patients, 110 to the intervention group and 110 to the
control group. Median percentage adherence was 84% (10th percentile 54%, 90th
percentile 96%) in the intervention group, compared with 30% (8%, 68%) in the
control group (p<0·0001). The proportion of days absent from school for any
reason was 1·9% (10th percentile 0·0%, 90th percentile 7·9%) in the intervention 
group and 1·7% (0·0%, 8·6%) in the control group. The change in asthma morbidity 
score from baseline to 6 months was significantly greater in the intervention
group than in the control group (p=0·008), with a reduction of 2·0 points from a 
mean baseline score of 9·3 (SD 2·2) to 7·3 (2·1) in the intervention group,
compared with a reduction of 1·2 points from a baseline of 9·2 (2·5) to 8·0 (2·2)
in the control group.
INTERPRETATION: Use of an electronic monitoring device with an audiovisual
reminder led to significant improvements in adherence to inhaled corticosteroids 
in school-aged children with asthma. This intervention could be beneficial for
the improvement of asthma control in patients for whom poor asthma control is
related to poor adherence.
FUNDING: Health Research Council of New Zealand and Cure Kids.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25617215  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


664. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Dietary Antioxidants as Modifiers of Physiologic Adaptations to Exercise.

Mankowski RT(1), Anton SD, Buford TW, Leeuwenburgh C.

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Aging and Geriatric Research, Institute on Aging, University of
Florida, Gainesville, FL; 2Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Erasmus
University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

Adaptive responses to exercise training (ET) are crucial in maintaining
physiological homeostasis and health span. Exercise-induced aerobic bioenergetic 
reactions in mitochondria and cytosol increase production of reactive oxygen
species (ROS), where excess of ROS can be scavenged by enzymatic as well as
non-enzymatic antioxidants to protect against deleterious oxidative stress. Free 
radicals, however, have recently been recognized as crucial signaling agents that
promote adaptive mechanisms to ET, such as mitochondrial biogenesis, antioxidant 
(AO) enzyme activity defense system upregulation, insulin sensitivity, and
glucose uptake in skeletal muscle. Commonly used non-enzymatic AO supplements,
such as vitamins C and E, a-lipoic acid, and polyphenols, in combination with ET,
have been proposed as ways to prevent exercise-induced oxidative stress and hence
improve adaptation responses to endurance training. Preclinical and clinical
studies to date have shown inconsistent results indicating either positive or
negative effects of endurance training combined with different blends of AO
supplements (mostly vitamins C and E and a-lipoic acid) on redox status,
mitochondrial biogenesis pathways, and insulin sensitivity. Preclinical reports
on ET combined with resveratrol, however, have shown consistent positive effects 
on exercise performance, mitochondrial biogenesis, and insulin sensitivity, with 
clinical trials reporting mixed effects. Relevant clinical studies have been few 
and have used inconsistent results and methodology (types of compounds,
combinations, and supplementation time). The future studies should investigate
the effects of specific antioxidants and other popular supplements, such as
a-lipoic acid and resveratrol, on training effects in humans. Of particular
importance are older adults who may be at higher risk of age-related increased
oxidative stress, an impaired AO enzyme defense system, and comorbidities such as
hypertension, insulin resistance, and diabetes.

PMID: 25606815  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


665. Mol Neurobiol. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Methylene Blue Improves Brain Mitochondrial ABAD Functions and Decreases Aβ in a 
Neuroinflammatory Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Model.

Zakaria A(1), Hamdi N, Abdel-Kader RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy and
Biotechnology, German University in Cairo, Cairo, Egypt.

Methylene blue (MB) phase II clinical trials reported improvements in cognitive
functions of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Regarding MB mechanism of action,
its antioxidant and mitochondrial protective effects have been previously
described. In relation to AD, it has been recently reported that MB reduced
amyloid beta (Aβ) levels in AD models. The mitochondrial enzyme amyloid-binding
alcohol dehydrogenase (ABAD) has been shown to bind Aβ inducing mitochondrial
dysfunction, providing a direct relation between Aβ toxicity and mitochondrial
dysfunction occurring in AD. Since it has been reported that inhibiting ABAD
protects mitochondrial functions and prevents Aβ-induced toxicity, the aim of the
current study was to investigate if the protective effects of MB could be
associated with an effect on ABAD levels and functions. The current study shows
that MB is able to enhance cell viability, reduce both reactive oxygen species
levels and importantly Aβ oligomers in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) mouse model.
Interestingly, ABAD levels were increased in the brains of the LPS mouse model
and MB treatment was able to reduce its levels. Given that regulation of the
estradiol level is a well-established function of ABAD, brain estradiol level was
compared in LPS mouse model and in MB-treated mice. The results of the current
study show that MB treatment is able to improve significantly the LPS-induced
decrease of estradiol levels in mice brains, indicating its ability to modulate
both levels and function of ABAD. These results give a new insight to possible
mechanisms of MB in AD.

PMID: 25601181  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


666. Neuro Oncol. 2015 Jan 20. pii: nou365. [Epub ahead of print]

Phase II study of PX-866 in recurrent glioblastoma.

Pitz MW(1), Eisenhauer EA(1), MacNeil MV(1), Thiessen B(1), Easaw JC(1),
Macdonald DR(1), Eisenstat DD(1), Kakumanu AS(1), Salim M(1), Chalchal H(1),
Squire J(1), Tsao MS(1), Kamel-Reid S(1), Banerji S(1), Tu D(1), Powers J(1),
Hausman DF(1), Mason WP(1).

Author information: 
(1)CancerCare Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada (M.W.P., S.B.); Queen's University,
Department of Oncology, Kingston, Canada (E.A.E.); Dalhousie University,Halifax, 
Canada (M.V.M.); BritishColumbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, Canada (B.T.); Tom
Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary, Canada (J.C.E.); London Regional Cancer Program,
London, Canada (D.R.M.); University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada (D.D.E.); Allan 
Blair Cancer Center, Regina, Canada (A.S.K., M.S., H.C.); Department of Pathology
and Molecular Medicine, Queen's University, Kingston, Canada (J.S.); Department
of Pathology, University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada
(M.S.T., S.K.-R.); NCIC Clinical Trials Group, Queen's University, Kingston,
Canada (D.T., J.P.); Oncothyreon, Inc., Seattle, Washington (D.F.H.); Princess
Margaret Cancer Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada (W.P.M.).

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most aggressive malignancy of the central
nervous system in adults. Increased activity of the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH
kinase (PI3K) signal transduction pathway is common. We performed a phase II
study using PX-866, an oral PI3K inhibitor, in participants with recurrent GBM.
METHODS: Patients with histologically confirmed GBM at first recurrence were
given oral PX-866 at a dose of 8 mg daily. An MRI and clinical exam were done
every 8 weeks. Tissue was analyzed for potential predictive markers.
RESULTS: Thirty-three participants (12 female) were enrolled. Median age was 56
years (range 35-78y). Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status was
0-1 in 29 participants and 2 in the remainder. Median number of cycles was 1
(range 1-8). All participants have discontinued therapy: 27 for disease
progression and 6 for toxicity (5 liver enzymes and 1 allergic reaction). Four
participants had treatment-related serious adverse events (1 liver enzyme, 1
diarrhea, 2 venous thromboembolism). Other adverse effects included fatigue,
diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and lymphopenia. Twenty-four participants had a
response of progression (73%), 1 had partial response (3%, and 8 (24%) had stable
disease (median, 6.3 months; range, 3.1-16.8 months). Median 6-month
progression-free survival was 17%. None of the associations between stable
disease and PTEN, PIK3CA, PIK3R1, or EGFRvIII status were statistically
significant.
CONCLUSIONS: PX-866 was relatively well tolerated. Overall response rate was low,
and the study did not meet its primary endpoint; however, 21% of participants
obtained durable stable disease. This study also failed to identify a
statistically significant association between clinical outcome and relevant
biomarkers in patients with available tissue.

© The Author(s) 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Society for Neuro-Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25605819  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


667. Nutrients. 2015 Jan 20;7(1):659-681.

Casein-Derived Lactotripeptides Reduce Systolic and Diastolic Blood Pressure in a
Meta-Analysis of Randomised Clinical Trials.

Fekete ÁA(1), Givens DI(2), Lovegrove JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hugh Sinclair Unit of Human Nutrition and Institute for Cardiovascular and
Metabolic Research (ICMR), Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences,
University of Reading, Reading RG6 6AP, UK. a.a.fekete@pgr.reading.ac.uk. (2)Food
Production and Quality Research Division, School of Agriculture, Policy and
Development, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Reading, Reading RG6 6AP,
UK. d.i.givens@reading.ac.uk. (3)Hugh Sinclair Unit of Human Nutrition and
Institute for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Research (ICMR), Department of Food
and Nutritional Sciences, University of Reading, Reading RG6 6AP, UK.
j.a.lovegrove@reading.ac.uk.

There is an urgent need to treat individuals with high blood pressure (BP) with
effective dietary strategies. Previous studies suggest a small, but significant
decrease in BP after lactotripeptides (LTP) ingestion, although the data are
inconsistent. The study aim was to perform a comprehensive meta-analysis of data 
from all relevant randomised controlled trials (RCT). Medline, Cochrane library, 
EMBASE and Web of Science were searched until May 2014. Eligibility criteria were
RCT that examined the effects of LTP on BP in adults, with systolic BP (SBP) and 
diastolic BP (DBP) as outcome measures. Thirty RCT met the inclusion criteria,
which resulted in 33 sets of data. The pooled treatment effect for SBP was -2.95 
mmHg (95% CI: -4.17, -1.73; p < 0.001), and for DBP was -1.51 mmHg (95% CI:
-2.21, -0.80; p < 0.001). Sub-group analyses revealed that reduction of BP in
Japanese studies was significantly greater, compared with European studies (p =
0.002 for SBP and p < 0.001 for DBP). The 24-h ambulatory BP (AMBP) response to
LTP supplementation was statistically non-significant (p = 0.101 for SBP and p = 
0.166 for DBP). Both publication bias and "small-study effect" were identified,
which shifted the treatment effect towards less significant SBP and
non-significant DBP reduction after LTP consumption. LTP may be effective in BP
reduction, especially in Japanese individuals; however sub-group, meta-regression
analyses and statistically significant publication biases suggest
inconsistencies.

PMCID: PMC4303860
PMID: 25608938  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


668. Oncotarget. 2015 Jan 20;6(2):592-603.

Androgen receptors beyond prostate cancer: an old marker as a new target.

Munoz J(1), Wheler JJ(2), Kurzrock R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology-Oncology, Banner MD Anderson Cancer Center, E. Banner Gateway
Drive, Gilbert, Arizona. (2)Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics
(Phase I Clinical Trials Program), The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas. (3)Center for Personalized Cancer
Therapy, Division and Hematology and Oncology, Moores Cancer Center, The
University of California San Diego, 3855 Health Sciences Drive, La Jolla,
California.

Androgen receptors (ARs) play a critical role in the development of prostate
cancer. Targeting ARs results in important salutary effects in this malignancy.
Despite mounting evidence that ARs also participate in the pathogenesis and/or
progression of diverse tumors, exploring the impact of hormonal manipulation of
these receptors has not been widely pursued beyond prostate cancer. This review
describes patterns of AR expression in a spectrum of cancers, and the potential
to exploit this knowledge in the clinical therapeutic setting.

PMID: 25595907  [PubMed - in process]


669. Ophthalmology. 2015 Jan 20. pii: S0161-6420(14)01121-X. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.11.025. [Epub ahead of print]

Genetics and Disease Expression in the CNGA3 Form of Achromatopsia: Steps on the 
Path to Gene Therapy.

Zelinger L(1), Cideciyan AV(2), Kohl S(3), Schwartz SB(2), Rosenmann A(1), Eli
D(1), Sumaroka A(2), Roman AJ(2), Luo X(2), Brown C(2), Rosin B(1), Blumenfeld
A(1), Wissinger B(3), Jacobson SG(2), Banin E(1), Sharon D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hadassah Hebrew University Medical Center,
Jerusalem, Israel. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Scheie Eye Institute,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (3)Molecular Genetics
Laboratory, Institute for Ophthalmic Research, Centre for Ophthalmology,
University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany. (4)Department of Ophthalmology,
Hadassah Hebrew University Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel. Electronic address:
dror.sharon1@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: Achromatopsia (ACHM) is a congenital, autosomal recessive retinal
disease that manifests cone dysfunction, reduced visual acuity and color vision, 
nystagmus, and photoaversion. Five genes are known causes of ACHM. The present
study took steps toward performing a trial of gene therapy in ACHM by
characterizing the genetics of ACHM in Israel and the Palestinian Territories and
analyzing retinal function and structure in CNGA3 ACHM patients from the
Israeli-Palestinian population and US patients with other origins.
DESIGN: Case series study.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with clinically suspected ACHM, cone dysfunction
phenotypes, and unaffected family members were included. The protocol was
approved by the local institutional review board and informed consent was
obtained from all participants.
METHODS: Genetic analyses included homozygosity mapping and exome sequencing.
Phenotype was assessed with electroretinography (ERG), optical coherence
tomography, psychophysics, and photoaversion testing.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Single nucleotide polymorphism microarray, exome analysis,
DNA sequence analysis, visual function testing including ERG, and photoaversion.
RESULTS: We identified 148 ACHM patients from 57 Israeli and Palestinian
families; there were 16 CNGA3 mutations (5 novel) in 41 families and 5 CNGB3
mutations (1 novel) in 8 families. Two CNGA3 founder mutations underlie >50% of
cases. These mutations lead to a high ACHM prevalence of ∼1:5000 among
Arab-Muslims residing in Jerusalem. Rod ERG abnormalities (in addition to cone
dysfunction) were detected in 59% of patients. Retinal structure in CNGA3 ACHM
patients revealed persistent but abnormal foveal cones. Under dark- and
light-adapted conditions, patients use rod-mediated pathways. Photoaversion was
readily demonstrated with transition from the dark to a dim light background.
CONCLUSIONS: Among Israeli and Palestinian patients, CNGA3 mutations are the
leading cause of ACHM. Retinal structural results support the candidacy of CNGA3 
ACHM for clinical trials for therapy of cone photoreceptors. Efficacy outcome
measures would include chromatic light-adapted psychophysics, with attention to
the photoreceptor basis of the response, and quantitation of photoaversion.

Copyright © 2015 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25616768  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


670. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2015 Jan 20. pii: 0194599814567856. [Epub ahead of
print]

Comparison of Local and Intravenous Dexamethasone for Postoperative Pain and
Recovery after Tonsillectomy.

Gao W(1), Zhang QR(1), Jiang L(1), Geng JY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Harbin Medical
University, Nangang District of Harbin, Harbin, China. (2)Department of
Anesthesiology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Harbin Medical University, Nangang
District of Harbin, Harbin, China gaowei20055@126.com gengjieying1403008@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To compare local infiltration of dexamethasone to intravenous
injection for postoperative pain and recovery after tonsillectomy.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective, randomized study.
SETTING: Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Children (n = 240, American Society of Anesthesiologists
[ASA] classes I-II, aged 5-10 y) scheduled for tonsillectomy were randomly and
equally assigned to 3 groups: DEX-IV, for intravenous injection of dexamethasone 
(0.5 mg/kg, maximum dose 24 mg); DEX-INF, given the same amount of dexamethasone 
by local infiltration to the upper middle and lower poles of the tonsils; and a
control group not given dexamethasone. Postoperative pain was scored at intervals
from 30 minutes to 24 hours. The time to first administration of analgesic and
average consumption of analgesic, times to first oral water and solid food
intake, and incidence rates of nausea and vomiting were evaluated.
RESULTS: From postoperative 1 to 16 hours, the DEX-INF group had significantly
lower pain scores than did the DEX-IV group, and the time to first analgesic and 
average consumption of analgesic were also significantly lower. The times to
first oral water and food intake in the DEX-INF group were significantly shorter 
than in the DEX-IV group. The incidence of nausea and vomiting in the DEX-INF
group was higher than that of the DEX-IV group.
CONCLUSION: Local infiltration of dexamethasone was more effective than systemic 
administration to decrease pain and time to food intake, but the antiemetic
effect was less. Clinical trials registration number: ChiCTR-TRC-13003535.

© American Academy of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery Foundation 2015.

PMID: 25605698  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


671. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2015 Jan 20. pii: 0194599814566595. [Epub ahead of
print]

Current Status of Clinical Trials in Head and Neck Cancer 2014.

Liu JC(1), Ridge JA(2), Brizel DM(3), O'Sullivan B(4), Cohen EW(5), Mann BS(6),
Adelstein DJ(7).

Author information: 
(1)Head and Neck Surgery Section, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, USA Department of Otolaryngology, Temple University School of
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA Jeffrey.Liu@temple.edu. (2)Head and
Neck Surgery Section, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke Cancer Institute, Durham, North
Carolina, USA. (4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Princess Margaret Hospital,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. (5)Moores Cancer Center, University of
California-San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA. (6)National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland, USA. (7)Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The last few years have seen significant increase in the number of 
available clinical trials in head and neck cancer. It has been difficult to stay 
abreast of these efforts because multiple cooperative groups and institutions are
engaged in their recruitment. This review presents the state of the art of
available clinical trials organized around major research themes.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature, published cooperative group monographs,
expert review.
REVIEW METHODS: Initial themes in head and neck cancer clinical trial development
were first identified along with examples. Opinions from an international panel
of multidisciplinary experts were then solicited.
RESULTS/DISCUSSION: Current major themes of head and neck clinical trials
centered on 5 major themes: (1) recognition of human papillomavirus oropharynx
cancer and optimal treatment strategies, (2) defining the role of transoral
surgery in head and neck cancer treatment, (3) improving postoperative adjuvant
treatment, (4) investigation of rare malignancies, and (5) the importance of
biomarker-driven, innovative, and targeted therapy investigation.
CONCLUSIONS: A number of exciting clinical trials are currently in development or
accrual with the potential for tremendous impact and improvement of the treatment
of head and neck cancer.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Awareness by practicing otolaryngologists and trainees
of these current themes will be essential for study accrual, success, and
improvement in the care of head and neck cancer.

© American Academy of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery Foundation 2015.

PMID: 25605695  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


672. Parasite Immunol. 2015 Jan 20. doi: 10.1111/pim.12175. [Epub ahead of print]

Clinical Trials of Helminth Therapy in Autoimmune Diseases: Rationale and
Findings.

Fleming JO(1), Weinstock JV.

Author information: 
(1)University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Neurology,
Madison, Wisconsin, United States.

Some helminths are major human pathogens. Recently, however, increased
understanding of the immunoregulatory responses induced by this class of
parasites, in combination with epidemiologic and animal studies, suggest that
helminths may have therapeutic potential in autoimmune diseases (AD) and other
conditions. This article reviews the rationale for and results of clinical trials
to test the safety and efficacy of helminth therapy in AD. Also discussed are
future prospects for investigation and the possibility that helminth treatment
may serve as a probe to help reveal the pathogenesis of AD. This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25600983  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


673. Phys Sportsmed. 2015 Jan 20:1-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy of platelet-rich plasma injections in pain associated with chronic
tendinopathy: a systematic review.

Balasubramaniam U(1), Dissanayake R, Annabell L.

Author information: 
(1)St. Vincent's Hospital , Melbourne , Australia.

Abstract Background: Chronic tendinopathy has often been a management dilemma for
general practitioners. With our understanding of the pathophysiology of
tendinopathy evolving, so has our management, with the advent of newer strategies
such as topical glycerol trinitrate, extracorporeal shock-wave therapy, as well
as platelet-rich plasma (PRP). Aim: To systematically review the literature
regarding PRP therapy in chronic tendinopathy. Design and setting: The databases 
used in our search include the Elton B. Stephens Co. (EBSCO) database, Medline,
the Cochrane library, Ovid, and Embase (the Excerpta Medica database). A total of
389 articles were reviewed from Feb 2010 to April 2014, for possible inclusion.
Of these articles, a total of 9 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) met our
inclusion criteria. Only 1 RCT was excluded due to previous surgery in both the
trial and control groups. Methods: Each article was reviewed independently by 2
authors. Each article was analyzed using the Cochrane Criteria checklist. Where
any discrepancy occurred in results, a third independent reviewer was consulted. 
Results: Our review found that PRP was most effective in patellar and lateral
epicondylar tendinopathy, with both RCTs in the patellar section of our study
supporting the use of PRP in pain reduction at 3 and 12 months, whereas 2 of 4
studies in the lateral epicondylar section showed improvements in pain and
disability at 6 and 12 months. There was a lack of evidence to support the use of
PRP in Achilles and rotator cuff tendinopathy. Conclusions: Although the results 
of this review show promise for the use of PRP in chronic tendinopathy, the
analysis highlighted the need for more controlled clinical trials comparing PRP
with placebo.

PMID: 25599747  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


674. Psychiatr Q. 2015 Jan 20. [Epub ahead of print]

The Polish Academic Version of the MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB):
Evaluation of Psychometric Properties.

Jędrasik-Styła M(1), Ciołkiewicz A, Styła R, Linke M, Parnowska D, Gruszka A,
Denisiuk M, Jarema M, Green MF, Wichniak A.

Author information: 
(1)Third Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology,
Sobieskiego 9 Street, 02-957, Warsaw, Poland, m.jedrasikstyla@gmail.com.

Work and social functioning in schizophrenia are strongly influenced by cognitive
impairment so improving cognition is a priority in the treatment of
schizophrenia. Until recently the lack of a widely accepted index of cognitive
change for use in schizophrenia was a major obstacle to the development of
cognition enhancing treatments. The MATRICS (measurement and treatment research
to improve cognition in schizophrenia) consensus cognitive battery (MCCB) was
developed as a standard cognitive battery for use in clinical trials of cognition
enhancing treatments for schizophrenia and has attracted worldwide interest. To
analyze the reliability and validity of a translated and adapted Polish approved 
academic version of the MCCB. Sixty one patients were assessed at baseline and
again after 30 days. The study protocol approximated the MATRICS psychometric and
standardization study; the 10 tests that comprise the MCCB were administered to
participants. Functioning and psychopathological symptoms were also assessed.
Patients and test administrators also assessed the tolerability and practicality 
of all the cognitive tests. All tests in the battery were found to have high
test-retest reliability. All the tests were rated as tolerable and practical by
patients and administrators. However practice effects were generally higher in
the Polish version of the MCCB than in the original version. Our analysis
corroborates previous evidence that the MCCB represents a good tool for assessing
cognitive deficits in research studies of schizophrenia also in non-English
speaking countries.

PMID: 25601030  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


675. Radiat Oncol. 2015 Jan 20;10(1):23. [Epub ahead of print]

Randomized multicenter follow-up trial on the effect of radiotherapy for plantar 
fasciitis (painful heels spur) depending on dose and fractionation ¿ a study
protocol.

Holtmann H, Niewald M, Prokein B, Graeber S, Ruebe C.

BackgroundAn actual clinical trial showed the effect of low dose radiotherapy in 
painful heel spur (plantar fasciitis) with single doses of 1.0 Gy and total doses
of 6.0 Gy applied twice weekly. Furthermore, a lot of animal experimental and in 
vitro data reveals the effect of lower single doses of 0.5 Gy which may be
superior in order to ease pain and reduce inflammation in patients with painful
heel spur. Our goal is therefore to transfer this experimentally found effect
into a randomized multicenter trial.Study design/methodsControlled, prospective, 
two-arm phase III-multicenter trial: Standard arm: single fractions of 1.0 Gy
applied two times a week, total dose of 6.0 Gy (total therapy time: 3 weeks)
Experimental arm: single fractions of 0.5 Gy applied 3 times a week, total dose
of 6.0 Gy (total therapy time: 4 weeks)Number of patients for each investigation 
arm: 120 (statistical power calculation)Main inclusion criteria: Age¿>¿= 40 years
Clinical and radiologically diagnosed painful heel spur (plantar fasciitis)
Current symptoms for at least 6 monthsMain exclusion criteria: Former local
trauma, surgery or radiotherapy of the heel Pregnant or breastfeeding women
Pre-existing severe psychiatric or psychosomatic disorderMethodsAfter approving a
written informed consent the patients are randomized by a statistician into one
of the trial arms. After radiotherapy, the patients are seen after six weeks,
after twelve weeks and then every twelve weeks up to 48 weeks. Additionally, they
receive a questionnaire every six weeks after the follow-up examinations up to
48 weeks. The effect is measured using the visual analogue scale of pain (VAS),
the calcaneodynia score according to Rowe and the SF-12 score. The primary
endpoint is the pain relief three months after therapy. Patients of both therapy 
arms with an insufficient result are offered a second radiotherapy series
applying the standard dose (equally in both arms).This trial protocol has been
approved by the expert panel of the DEGRO as well as by the Ethics committee of
the Saarland Physicians¿ chamber.Trial registrationCurrent trial registration at 
German Clinical Trials Register with the number DRKS00004458.

PMID: 25601335  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


676. Addict Behav. 2015 Jan 19;45C:57-62. doi: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2015.01.017. [Epub
ahead of print]

Misreporting in a randomized clinical trial for smoking cessation in adolescents.

Lantini R(1), McGrath AC(2), Stein LA(3), Barnett NP(4), Monti PM(4), Colby
SM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, Brown University, Box G-S121,
Providence, RI 02912, United States. Electronic address: RyanLantini@live.com.
(2)Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, Brown University, Box G-S121,
Providence, RI 02912, United States. (3)Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies,
Brown University, Box G-S121, Providence, RI 02912, United States; University of 
Rhode Island, Social Sciences Research Center, Department of Psychology,
Kingston, RI 02881, United States; Rhode Island Training School, Cranston, RI
02910, United States. (4)Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, Brown
University, Box G-S121, Providence, RI 02912, United States; Department of
Behavioral and Social Sciences, School of Public Health, Brown University,
Providence, RI 02912, United States. (5)Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies,
Brown University, Box G-S121, Providence, RI 02912, United States; Department of 
Behavioral and Social Sciences, School of Public Health, Brown University,
Providence, RI 02912, United States; Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior,
Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, United States.

INTRODUCTION: Misreporting smoking behavior is common among younger smokers
participating in clinical trials for smoking cessation. This study focused on the
prevalence of and factors associated with adolescent misreporting of smoking
behaviors within the context of a randomized clinical trial for smoking
cessation.
METHODS: Adolescent smokers (N=129) participated in a randomized clinical trial
that compared two brief interventions for smoking cessation. Following the final 
(6-month) follow-up, a confidential, self-administered exit questionnaire
examined the extent to which participants admitted to having misreported smoking 
quantity, frequency and/or consequences during the study. Factors associated with
under- and over-reporting were compared to accurate-reporting.
RESULTS: One in 4 adolescent smokers (25.6%) admitted to under-reporting during
the study and 14.7% admitted to over-reporting; 10.9% of the adolescents admitted
to both under- and over-reporting. Rates of admitted misreporting did not differ 
between treatment conditions or recruitment site. Compared to accurate-reporting,
under- and over-reporting were significantly associated with home smoking
environment and the belief among adolescents that the baseline interviewer wanted
them to report smoking more or less than they actually smoked. Compared to
accurate reporters, over-reporters were more likely to be non-White and to report
being concerned with the confidentiality of their responses.
CONCLUSIONS: A post-study confidential debriefing questionnaire can be a useful
tool for estimating rates of misreporting and examining whether potential
differences in misreporting might bias the interpretation of treatment effects.
Future studies are needed to thoroughly examine potentially addressable reasons
that adolescents misreport their smoking behavior and to develop methods for
reducing misreporting.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25644588  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


677. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2015 Jan 19;15(1):3. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-15-3.

Recurrent Tako-Tsubo cardiomyopathy (TTC) in a pre-menopausal woman: late
sequelae of a traumatic event?

Hefner J(1), Csef H, Frantz S, Glatter N, Warrings B.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, Department of Internal
Medicine II, Julius-Maximilian-University of Wuerzburg, Oberduerrbacher Str, 6,
D- 97080 Wuerzburg, Germany. hefner_j@ukw.de.

BACKGROUND: "Tako-Tsubo cardiomyopathy" (TTC) is a syndrome characterized by left
ventricular (LV) wall motion abnormalities, usually without coronary artery
disease, mimicking the diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome. It most often
affects post-menopausal women and TTC tends to run a benign course with very low 
rates of recurrence, complications or mortality. The condition is also called
"stress-induced cardiomyopathy" because acute physical or emotional stress
appears to be frequently related to its onset. The pathogenic role of premorbid
or comorbid psychiatric illnesses has been discussed controversially. For the
first time, we present a case of fourfold recurrent TTC with severe complications
in a pre-menopausal woman. Furthermore, a long history of flaring posttraumatic
stress symptoms anteceded the first event.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 43-year old, pre-menopausal Caucasian woman was hospitalized
with symptoms of acute coronary syndrome. Clinical examination revealed
hypokinetic wall motion in the apical ventricular region with no signs of
coronary artery disease and diagnosis of TTC was established. She experienced
recurrence three times within the following ten months, which led to
thrombembolism and myocardial scarring among others. The circumstances of chronic
distress were striking. 16 years ago she miscarried after having removed a myoma 
according to her doctor's suggestion. Since then, she has suffered from symptoms 
of posttraumatic distress which peaked annually at the day of abortion. Chronic
distress became even more pronounced after the premature birth of a daughter some
years later. The first event of TTC occurred after a family dispute about
parenting.
CONCLUSION: This is the first case report of fourfold TTC in a pre-menopausal
woman. From somatic perspectives, the course of the disease with recurrences and 
complications underlines the fact that TTC is not entirely benign. Furthermore,
it is the first case report of long lasting symptoms of traumatic stress
anteceding TTC. Close connections between adrenergic signaling and late onset of 
clinical stress symptoms are well known in the psychopathology of traumatization.
Although larger clinical trials are needed to elucidate possible interactions of 
premorbid psychiatric illnesses and TTC, cardiologists should be vigilant
especially in cases of recurrent TTC.

PMID: 25601763  [PubMed - in process]


678. BMC Med. 2015 Jan 19;13(1):10. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists in patients with preserved
ejection fraction: a meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials.

Chen Y, Wang H, Lu Y, Huang X, Liao Y, Bin J.

BackgroundMineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) have been shown to be
effective in patients with heart failure or myocardial infarction complicated by 
a reduced ejection fraction. However, the role of MRAs in patients with preserved
ejection fraction (PEF) remains to be clarified. We aimed to summarize the
evidence for the efficacy of MRAs in patients with either heart failure with PEF 
(HF-PEF) or myocardial infarction with PEF (MI-PEF).MethodsWe searched PubMed,
EMBASE, Cochrane Library, and clinical trials databases for randomized controlled
trials, through June 2014, assessing MRA treatment in HF-PEF or MI-PEF patients. 
Fourteen randomized controlled trials (MI-PEF, 5; HF-PEF, 9; n¿=¿6,428 patients) 
were included.ResultsMRA treatment reduced the risk of hospitalization for heart 
failure (relative risk, 0.83; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.70 to 0.98),
improved quality of life (weighted mean difference [WMD], ¿5.16; 95% CI, ¿8.03 to
¿2.30), left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (standardized mean difference,
¿0.21; 95% CI, 0.32 to ¿0.11), and serum amino-terminal peptide of procollagen
type-III level (WMD, ¿1.50, 95% CI, ¿1.72 to ¿1.29) in patients with PEF. In
addition, MRAs reduced E/e'(an echocardiographic estimate of filling pressure for
assessment of diastolic function; WMD, ¿1.82; 95% CI, ¿2.23 to ¿1.42) in HF-PEF
patients and E/A ratio (the ratio of early to late diastolic transmitral flow;
WMD, 0.12; 95% CI, 0.10 to 0.14) in MI-PEF patients. However, all-cause mortality
was not improved by MRAs in either HF-PEF (P¿=¿0.90) or MI-PEF (P¿=¿0.27)
patients.ConclusionsMRA treatment in PEF patients led to reduced hospitalization 
for heart failure, quantifiable improvements in quality of life and diastolic
function, and reversal of cardiac remodeling, but did not provide any all-cause
mortality benefit.

PMCID: PMC4307751
PMID: 25598008  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


679. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Jan 19. pii: canimm.0186.2014. [Epub ahead of print]

Identification of chimeric antigen receptors that mediate constitutive or
inducible proliferation of T cells.

Frigault MJ(1), Lee J(1), Basil M(1), Carpenito C(1), Motohashi S(2), Scholler
J(3), Kawalekar OU(1), Guedan S(1), McGettigan S(1), Posey A Jr(1), Ang S(4),
Cooper LJ(5), Platt J(1), Johnson FB(6), Paulos CM(7), Zhao Y(8), Kalos M(1),
Milone M(1), June CH(9).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology, University of Pennsylvania. (2)Department of Medical Immunology,
Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba University. (3)Abramson Family Cancer Research
Institute, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. (4)Pediatrics, MD
Anderson Cancer Center. (5)Pediatrics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center. (6)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine. (7)Pathology, University of Pennsylvania School 
of Medicine. (8)School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania. (9)Pathology,
University of Pennsylvania cjune@exchange.upenn.edu.

This study compares second generation chimeric antigen receptors encoding
signaling domains comprised of CD28, ICOS and 4-1BB. Here we report that certain 
CARs endow T cells with the ability to undergo long-term autonomous
proliferation. Transduction of primary human T cells lentiviral vectors encoding 
some of the CARs resulted in sustained proliferation for up to three months
following a single stimulation through the TCR. Sustained numeric expansion was
independent of cognate antigen and did not require the addition of exogenous
cytokines or feeder cells after a single stimulation of the TCR and CD28. Both
gene array and functional assays link sustained cytokine secretion and expression
of T-bet, EOMES and GATA-3 to the effect. Sustained expression of the endogenous 
IL-2 locus has not previously been reported in primary T cells. The growth is
dependent on CAR structure and high expression of the CAR, which is necessary but
not sufficient. The mechanism involves constitutive signaling through NF-kB, Akt,
Erk and NFAT. The propagated CAR T cells retain a diverse TCR repertoire and
transformation was not observed. The CARs with a constitutive growth phenotype
displayed inferior antitumor effects and engraftment in vivo. Therefore the
design of CARs that have a non-constitutive growth phenotype may be a strategy to
improve efficacy and engraftment of CAR T cells. The identification of CARs that 
confer constitutive or non-constitutive growth patterns may explain observations 
that CAR T cells have differential survival patterns in clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25600436  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


680. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 19;1:CD009436. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD009436.pub2.

Complementary therapies for acne vulgaris.

Cao H(1), Yang G, Wang Y, Liu JP, Smith CA, Luo H, Liu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Evidence-Based Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing, China, 100029.

BACKGROUND: Acne is a chronic skin disease characterised by inflamed spots and
blackheads on the face, neck, back, and chest. Cysts and scarring can also occur,
especially in more severe disease. People with acne often turn to complementary
and alternative medicine (CAM), such as herbal medicine, acupuncture, and dietary
modifications, because of their concerns about the adverse effects of
conventional medicines. However, evidence for CAM therapies has not been
systematically assessed.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects and safety of any complementary therapies in
people with acne vulgaris.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases from inception up to 22
January 2014: the Cochrane Skin Group Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2014,Issue 1), MEDLINE (from 1946),
Embase (from 1974), PsycINFO (from 1806), AMED (from 1985), CINAHL (from 1981),
Scopus (from 1966), and a number of other databases listed in the Methods section
of the review. The Cochrane CAM Field Specialised Register was searched up to May
2014. We also searched five trials registers and checked the reference lists of
articles for further references to relevant trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included parallel-group randomised controlled trials (or
the first phase data of randomised cross-over trials) of any kind of CAM,
compared with no treatment, placebo, or other active therapies, in people with a 
diagnosis of acne vulgaris.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three authors collected data from each included
trial and evaluated the methodological quality independently. They resolved
disagreements by discussion and, as needed, arbitration by another author.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 35 studies, with a total of 3227 participants. We
evaluated the majority as having unclear risk of selection, attrition, reporting,
detection, and other biases. Because of the clinical heterogeneity between trials
and the incomplete data reporting, we could only include four trials in two
meta-analyses, with two trials in each meta-analysis. The categories of CAM
included herbal medicine, acupuncture, cupping therapy, diet, purified bee venom 
(PBV), and tea tree oil. A pharmaceutical company funded one trial; the other
trials did not report their funding sources.Our main primary outcome was
'Improvement of clinical signs assessed through skin lesion counts', which we
have reported as 'Change in inflammatory and non-inflammatory lesion counts',
'Change of total skin lesion counts', 'Skin lesion scores', and 'Change of acne
severity score'. For 'Change in inflammatory and non-inflammatory lesion counts',
we combined 2 studies that compared a low- with a high-glycaemic-load diet (LGLD,
HGLD) at 12 weeks and found no clear evidence of a difference between the groups 
in change in non-inflammatory lesion counts (mean difference (MD) -3.89, 95%
confidence interval (CI) -10.07 to 2.29, P = 0.10, 75 participants, 2 trials, low
quality of evidence). However, although data from 1 of these 2 trials showed
benefit of LGLD for reducing inflammatory lesions (MD -7.60, 95% CI -13.52 to
-1.68, 43 participants, 1 trial) and total skin lesion counts (MD -8.10, 95% CI
-14.89 to -1.31, 43 participants, 1 trial) for people with acne vulgaris, data
regarding inflammatory and total lesion counts from the other study were
incomplete and unusable in synthesis.Data from a single trial showed potential
benefit of tea tree oil compared with placebo in improving total skin lesion
counts (MD -7.53, 95% CI -10.40 to -4.66, 60 participants, 1 trial, low quality
of evidence) and acne severity scores (MD -5.75, 95% CI -9.51 to -1.99, 60
participants, 1 trial). Another trial showed pollen bee venom to be better than
control in reducing numbers of skin lesions (MD -1.17, 95% CI -2.06 to -0.28, 12 
participants, 1 trial).Results from the other 31 trials showed inconsistent
effects in terms of whether acupuncture, herbal medicine, or wet-cupping therapy 
were superior to controls in increasing remission or reducing skin
lesions.Twenty-six of the 35 included studies reported adverse effects; they did 
not report any severe adverse events, but specific included trials reported mild 
adverse effects from herbal medicines, wet-cupping therapy, and tea tree oil
gel.Thirty trials measured two of our secondary outcomes, which we combined and
expressed as 'Number of participants with remission'. We were able to combine 2
studies (low quality of evidence), which compared Ziyin Qinggan Xiaocuo Granule
and the antibiotic, minocycline (100 mg daily) (worst case = risk ratio (RR)
0.49, 95% CI 0.09 to 2.53, 2 trials, 206 participants at 4 weeks; best case = RR 
2.82, 95% CI 0.82 to 9.06, 2 trials, 206 participants at 4 weeks), but there was 
no clear evidence of a difference between the groups.None of the included studies
assessed 'Psychosocial function'.Two studies assessed 'Quality of life', and
significant differences in favour of the complementary therapy were found in both
of them on 'feelings of self-worth' (MD 1.51, 95% CI 0.88 to 2.14, P < 0.00001, 1
trial, 70 participants; MD 1.26, 95% CI 0.20 to 2.32, 1 trial, 46 participants)
and emotional functionality (MD 2.20, 95% CI 1.75 to 2.65, P < 0.00001, 1 trial, 
70 participants; MD 0.93, 95% CI 0.17 to 1.69, 1 trial, 46 participants).Because 
of limitations and concerns about the quality of the included studies, we could
not draw a robust conclusion for consistency, size, and direction of outcome
effects in this review.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is some low-quality evidence from single trials that 
LGLD, tea tree oil, and bee venom may reduce total skin lesions in acne vulgaris,
but there is a lack of evidence from the current review to support the use of
other CAMs, such as herbal medicine, acupuncture, or wet-cupping therapy, for the
treatment of this condition. There is a potential for adverse effects from herbal
medicines; however, future studies need to assess the safety of all of these CAM 
therapies. Methodological and reporting quality limitations in the included
studies weakened any evidence. Future studies should be designed to ensure low
risk of bias and meet current reporting standards for clinical trials.

PMID: 25597924  [PubMed - in process]


681. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2015 Jan 19. pii: S1040-8428(15)00007-4. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.01.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy and toxicity of sunitinib for non clear cell renal cell carcinoma (RCC):
A systematic review of the literature.

Abdel-Rahman O(1), Fouad M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Oncology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University,
Cairo, Egypt. Electronic address: omar.abdelrhman@med.asu.edu.eg. (2)Medical
Microbiology and Immunology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams
University, Cairo, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: The randomized phase III trial of sunitinib versus interferon Alfa
provided level-A evidence for the use of sunitinib in advanced clear cell renal
cell carcinoma (RCC). This systematic literature review aims at the evaluation of
the level of evidence for the use of sunitinib monotherapy for advanced non clear
cell RCC in terms of efficacy and toxicity parameters.
METHODS: Eligible studies were identified using MEDLINE, Google scholar, ASCO,
ESMO and the Cochrane databases. Searches were last updated on 1 June 2014.
Eligible studies reported survival and/or response data for patients with non
clear cell RCC receiving sunitinib monotherapy.
RESULTS: four hundred and five results were obtained from the searches in MEDLINE
(n=319 studies) and other databases (n=86). Twelve studies (involving 980
patients) were considered eligible and were included in the final analysis: six
phase II clinical trials, one expanded access prospective trial and five
retrospective analyses. Median PFS was reported in 11 studies ranging from 1.6 to
8.9 months. Median OS was reported in 9 studies ranging from 12 months to 22
months. The disease control rate (DCR) was reported in 10 studies, and it ranged 
from 35% to 91%. The overall response rate (ORR) was reported in 10 studies and
it ranged from 0% to 36%. Frequently reported Grade 3/4 toxicities were
gastrointestinal toxicities, mucocutaneous toxicities and hematologic toxicities.
CONCLUSION: There is insufficient evidence (level C) to recommend sunitinib
monotherapy in advanced non clear cell RCC and the available data suggests it
appears less efficacious than that in advanced clear cell RCC. Further
prospective and randomized studies are needed to explore alternative therapies in
this setting.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25638704  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


682. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2015 Jan 19. [Epub ahead of print]

Update on management of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.

Pellicori P(1), Cleland JG.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Cardiology, Castle Hill Hospital, Hull York Medical School (at 
University of Hull), Kingston upon Hull bNational Heart & Lung Institute, Royal
Brompton & Harefield Hospitals, Imperial College, London, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The number of patients developing heart failure is increasing 
dramatically, and will likely continue to do so for the next few decades. At
least half of the patients with symptoms and signs of heart failure have a normal
left ventricular ejection fraction on echocardiography [heart failure with
preserved ejection fraction (HFPEF)]. This review updates the current management 
of patients with HFPEF and summarizes what is in development.
RECENT FINDINGS: Many different pathophysiologies may result in HFPEF. No single 
imaging measure may reliably identify cardiac dysfunction, but plasma
concentrations of natriuretic peptides, reflecting the final pathway of
congestion, appear to. Natriuretic peptides are now an essential part of the
diagnostic process and are increasingly used to select patients to be enrolled in
clinical trials. No therapeutic intervention has unequivocally been shown to
modify the natural history of HFPEF, although several improve symptoms and
functional capacity, which are important targets in this population. The failure 
of many clinical trials may reflect the inclusion of patients who are at low risk
of cardiovascular events or the diverse pathophysiology of HFPEF. When patients
are congested (i.e. have elevated plasma concentrations of natriuretic peptides) 
a diagnosis of HFPEF can be made with some confidence, the patients will be at
increased cardiovascular risk and treatments aimed at correcting congestion will 
probably be effective. Selection of treatment to target a specific underlying
pathophysiology is an alternative, relatively untried approach.
SUMMARY: Further clinical trials will provide new insights into the
pathophysiology of this complex disease and, hopefully, identify therapies that
also improve outcome.

PMID: 25603033  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


683. Drug Discov Today. 2015 Jan 19. pii: S1359-6446(15)00019-7. doi:
10.1016/j.drudis.2015.01.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Pharmacological treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: an update.

Spagnolo P(1), Wells AU(2), Collard HR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Medical University Clinic, Canton Hospital Baselland, Liestal, Switzerland;
University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address:
paolo.spagnolo@ksbl.ch. (2)Interstitial Lung Disease Unit, Royal Brompton
Hospital, London, UK. (3)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care Medicine, Sleep and
Allergy, Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA,
USA.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive and almost invariably lethal
disease that affects primarily older adults. After a decade of negative (or
inconsistent) results, two recent clinical trials have demonstrated that slowing 
disease progression with medication is possible. An improved understanding of
disease pathogenesis, epidemiology, and diagnostic criteria has been key to this 
success. Yet, this is only the beginning. It is hoped that continuous efforts by 
dedicated scientists and clinicians, patient organizations, health authorities,
and pharmaceutical companies will soon lead to the development of more effective 
and better-tolerated treatment strategies for this devastating disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25613790  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


684. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 19:1-15. [Epub ahead of print]

Novel antiangiogenic drugs for the management of breast cancer: new approaches
for an old issue?

Bozza C(1), Fontanella C, Buoro V, Mansutti M, Aprile G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital of Udine, 33100 Udine,
Italy.

Since angiogenesis plays an important role in cancer growth, infiltration and
metastasis, many agents targeting this pathway have been developed over the last 
decade. Antiangiogenic drugs interfere with this process and may inhibit
neoplastic growth or induce tumor dormancy by blocking the expanding network of
newly formed capillaries. Despite the initial promise, targeting angiogenesis in 
breast cancer has not reached major breakthroughs. Nevertheless, the immunologic 
role of VEGF deserves to be further explored. We aim to describe the biological
mechanisms which underlie the role of angiogenesis in breast cancer
carcinogenesis, to depict its contribution to the metastatic process and to
review the most important clinical trials testing angiogenic inhibitors in breast
cancer, including monoclonal antibodies and novel small molecules.

PMID: 25597501  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


685. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2015 Jan 19. pii: S0020-7292(15)00032-6. doi:
10.1016/j.ijgo.2014.11.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Second-trimester postabortion care for ruptured membranes, fetal demise, and
incomplete abortion.

Mark AG(1), Edelman A(2), Borgatta L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ipas, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: marka@ipas.org. (2)Ipas,
Chapel Hill, NC, USA; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health and 
Science University, Portland, OR, USA. (3)Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Guidance for postabortion care (PAC) is established for the first
trimester but limited in the second trimester.
OBJECTIVES: To establish evidence-based recommendations for PAC in the second
trimester.
SEARCH STRATEGY: Medline, POPLINE, and the Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials were searched with terms related to second-trimester PAC,
including fetal demise, ruptured membranes, and incomplete abortion. The
reference lists of retrieved articles were also searched.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Clinical trials and comparative studies of women presenting
in the second trimester (12-28weeks) were included if more than 50% of
participants met PAC criteria or if outcomes for PAC were analyzed separately.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data were extracted from included studies. When
interventions in at least two articles were comparable, a meta-analysis was
performed.
MAIN RESULTS: Overall, 17 studies of 1419 women met inclusion criteria.
Misoprostol given vaginally, sublingually, or buccally was associated with
shorter expulsion times than was oral misoprostol. Additionally, 200μg of
misoprostol was more effective than lower doses. Pretreatment with mifepristone
decreased expulsion time. Misoprostol was more effective than oxytocin.
CONCLUSION: Misoprostol with or without mifepristone is an effective treatment
for second-trimester PAC. The minimum misoprostol dose is 200μg vaginally,
sublingually, or buccally every 6-12hours.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

PMID: 25660084  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


686. Int J Low Extrem Wounds. 2015 Jan 19. pii: 1534734614566937. [Epub ahead of
print]

Local Antibiotic Delivery Systems in Diabetic Foot Osteomyelitis: Time for One
Step Beyond?

Panagopoulos P(1), Drosos G(2), Maltezos E(3), Papanas N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Infectious Diseases, 2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Democritus
University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece. (2)Orthopaedic Department,
Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece. (3)Unit of Infectious
Diseases, 2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace,
Alexandroupolis, Greece Outpatient Clinic of the Diabetic Foot, 2nd Department of
Internal Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(4)Outpatient Clinic of the Diabetic Foot, 2nd Department of Internal Medicine,
Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece papanasnikos@yahoo.gr.

In patients with diabetes mellitus, osteomyelitis is a severe, difficult-to-treat
form of foot infection. In the management of diabetic foot osteomyelitis,
carriers for local delivery of antimicrobial agents have begun to be tried, in an
attempt to provide high local antibiotic concentrations. Randomized clinical
trials are now expected to clarify when this new approach should be used and how 
it can be integrated into the overall therapeutic strategy for diabetic foot
osteomyelitis.

© The Author(s) 2015.

PMID: 25604011  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


687. J Geriatr Oncol. 2015 Jan 19. pii: S1879-4068(15)00004-1. doi:
10.1016/j.jgo.2015.01.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparative effectiveness of anthracycline-containing chemotherapy in United
States veterans age 80 and older with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

Carson KR(1), Riedell P(2), Lynch R(2), Nabhan C(3), Wildes TM(4), Liu W(5),
Ganti A(6), Roop R(5), Sanfilippo KM(5), O'Brian K(5), Liu J(7), Bartlett NL(8), 
Cashen A(8), Wagner-Johnston N(8), Fehniger TA(8), Colditz GA(9).

Author information: 
(1)Research Service, St. Louis Veterans Affairs Medical Center, St. Louis, MO
63103, USA; Division of Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, 660
S. Euclid Ave., St. Louis, MO 63110, USA; Division of Public Health Sciences,
Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave., St. Louis, MO
63110, USA. Electronic address: kcarson@dom.wustl.edu. (2)Department of Internal 
Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave., St.
Louis, MO 63110, USA. (3)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Advocate Lutheran
General Hospital, 1775 Dempster St, Park Ridge, IL 60068, USA. (4)Division of
Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave., St.
Louis, MO 63110, USA; Division of Public Health Sciences, Washington University
School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave., St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. (5)Research
Service, St. Louis Veterans Affairs Medical Center, St. Louis, MO 63103, USA;
Division of Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid
Ave., St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. (6)Research Service, St. Louis Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, St. Louis, MO 63103, USA. (7)Division of Biostatistics,
Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave., St. Louis, MO
63110, USA. (8)Division of Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine,
660 S. Euclid Ave., St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. (9)Division of Public Health
Sciences, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave., St.
Louis, MO 63110, USA.

OBJECTIVES: While anthracycline-based treatment can cure diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma, most patients over age 80 do not receive doxorubicin due to toxicity
concerns. This study evaluated this practice, as patients age 80 and older are
largely excluded from clinical trials. The primary outcome of interest was
overall survival. Secondary outcomes included treatment-related mortality and
anthracycline dose intensity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We assembled a cohort of 530 newly diagnosed diffuse large
B-cell lymphoma patients age 80 or older diagnosed within United States Veterans 
Health Administration. Treatment and survival information were obtained to
determine associations between anthracycline use, dose intensity,
treatment-related mortality and overall survival.
RESULTS: Of the 530 patients, 285 received systemic treatment and 193 received an
anthracycline. After controlling for potential confounders, rituximab decreased
mortality (hazard ratio, 0.62; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.44-0.88), while
doxorubicin was not significantly associated with mortality (hazard ratio, 0.87; 
95% CI: 0.64-1.17). Completion of treatment with anthracycline dose intensity
≥85% of expected was only 14%. Patients treated with anthracycline dose intensity
<85% had better one year survival compared to those treated at ≥85% (70% vs. 59%,
p=0.029).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that full dose anthracycline therapy may be
less important in the treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma patients over
age 80. The low frequency of completion of full dose intensity treatment suggests
that standard doses are an unrealistic standard of care for patients this age.
Alternate treatment strategies and risk stratification should be considered for
these patients.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25614297  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


688. J Lipid Res. 2015 Jan 19. pii: jlr.P055491. [Epub ahead of print]

The Implication of Cigarette Smoking and Cessation on Macrophage Cholesterol
Efflux in Coronary Artery Disease Patients.

Song W(1), Wang W(1), Dou LY(1), Wang Y(1), Xu Y(1), Chen LF(1), Yan XW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Peking Union Medical College (PUMC) Hospital, China. (2)Peking Union Medical
College (PUMC) Hospital, China xiaoweiyanpumc@aliyun.com.

Background: We investigated ATP-binding cassette transporters A1/G1 expression
and function in mediating cholesterol efflux by examining the macrophages of
cigarette-smoking patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) before and after
smoking abstinence. Methods and Results: Peripheral blood monocyte cells were
collected from non-smokers (n=17) non-CAD (NCAD) smokers (n=35), and CAD smokers 
(n=32) before and after 3 months smoking cessation. We found that the ABCA1
expression level was lower in macrophages from both NCAD and CAD smokers than for
non-smokers at baseline. The ABCA1 function of mediating cholesterol efflux was
reduced in NCAD and CAD smokers as compared with non-smokers. After 3 months
smoking cessation, ABCA1 expression and function were improved in CAD smokers.
However, ABCG1 expression and function did not change after smoking cessation.
Furthermore, ABCA1 expressions were inhibited by tar in THP-1-derived macrophages
through the inhibition of Liver X receptors. Nicotine and carbon monoxide did not
inhibit ABCA1 expression. Conclusion: Our results indicate that chronic cigarette
smoking impaired ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux in macrophages, and tobacco
abstinence reversed the function and expression of ABCA1, especially in CAD
patients. It was tobacco tar, rather than nicotine or carbon monoxide, that
played a major role in the tobacco-induced disturbance of cellular cholesterol
homeostasis.

Copyright © 2015, The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

PMID: 25601961  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


689. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Jan 19. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2014.3558. [Epub ahead of
print]

Inflammation and Neuroprotection in Traumatic Brain Injury.

Corps KN(1), Roth TL(1), McGavern DB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology and Intravital Imaging Section, National Institutes of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland.

Importance: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a significant public health concern
that affects individuals in all demographics. With increasing interest in the
medical and public communities, understanding the inflammatory mechanisms that
drive the pathologic and consequent cognitive outcomes can inform future research
and clinical decisions for patients with TBI.
Objectives: To review known inflammatory mechanisms in TBI and to highlight
clinical trials and neuroprotective therapeutic manipulations of pathologic and
inflammatory mechanisms of TBI.
Evidence Review: We searched articles in PubMed published between 1960 and August
1, 2014, using the following keywords: traumatic brain injury, sterile injury,
inflammation, astrocytes, microglia, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, T
cells, reactive oxygen species, alarmins, danger-associated molecular patterns,
purinergic receptors, neuroprotection, and clinical trials. Previous clinical
trials or therapeutic studies that involved manipulation of the discussed
mechanisms were considered for inclusion. The final list of selected studies was 
assembled based on novelty and direct relevance to the primary focus of this
review.
Findings: Traumatic brain injury is a diverse group of sterile injuries induced
by primary and secondary mechanisms that give rise to cell death, inflammation,
and neurologic dysfunction in patients of all demographics. Pathogenesis is
driven by complex, interacting mechanisms that include reactive oxygen species,
ion channel and gap junction signaling, purinergic receptor signaling,
excitotoxic neurotransmitter signaling, perturbations in calcium homeostasis, and
damage-associated molecular pattern molecules, among others. Central nervous
system resident and peripherally derived inflammatory cells respond to TBI and
can provide neuroprotection or participate in maladaptive secondary injury
reactions. The exact contribution of inflammatory cells to a TBI lesion is
dictated by their anatomical positioning as well as the local cues to which they 
are exposed.
Conclusions and Relevance: The mechanisms that drive TBI lesion development as
well as those that promote repair are exceedingly complex and often superimposed.
Because pathogenic mechanisms can diversify over time or even differ based on the
injury type, it is important that neuroprotective therapeutics be developed and
administered with these variables in mind. Due to its complexity, TBI has proven 
particularly challenging to treat; however, a number of promising therapeutic
approaches are now under pre-clinical development, and recent clinical trials
have even yielded a few successes. Given the worldwide impact of TBI on the human
population, it is imperative that research remains active in this area and that
we continue to develop therapeutics to improve outcome in afflicted patients.

PMID: 25599342  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


690. Med Hypotheses. 2015 Jan 19. pii: S0306-9877(15)00033-X. doi:
10.1016/j.mehy.2015.01.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Adjunctive techniques for enhancing mandibular growth in Class II malocclusion.

Feres MF(1), Alhadlaq A(2), El-Bialy T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Alberta, 8440 112th. St. NW, 2J2.00 WC 
Mackenzie Health Sciences Centre, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2R7, Canada. Electronic
address: feres@ualberta.ca. (2)Department of Dentistry, University of Alberta,
8440 112th. St. NW, 2J2.00 WC Mackenzie Health Sciences Centre, Edmonton, Alberta
T6G 2R7, Canada.

Class II malocclusions are generally characterized by mandible retrusion. For
this reason, forward bite jumping appliances, also known as functional appliances
were originally designed to enhance mandibular forward projection. However, there
is still insufficient evidence to support the effectiveness, predictability and
stability of functional appliances in modifying mandibular growth. This article
was aimed at presenting evidences and hypotheses that mandibular growth may be
enhanced through the use of adjunctive methods in conjunction with functional
appliances. In formulating our hypothesis, we considered relevant data, mostly
derived from animal studies, concerning alternative methods, such as
low-intensity ultrasound and light-emitting diode, as well as their related
cellular and molecular mechanisms. According to the evidences covered in this
article, we suggest that both methods are potentially effective, and
theoretically able to act in synergistic way to enhance functional appliances
treatment on mandibular and condylar additional growth. The rationale for the use
of these methods as adjunctive therapies for mandibular underdevelopment is
attributed to their abilities on stimulating angiogenesis, cell differentiation, 
proliferation, and hypertrophy, as well as enhancing matrix production and
endochondoral bone formation, especially on the condyle of growing animals. This 
article also proposed a study design which would be able to either prove or
refute our hypothesis. If ratified, it would represent a significant scientific
accomplishment which provides support for further investigations to be carried
out on well-designed clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25648662  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


691. Viruses. 2015 Jan 19;7(1):268-284.

Bacteriophage-Derived Vectors for Targeted Cancer Gene Therapy.

Pranjol MZ(1), Hajitou A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical and Biomedical Science, University of Exeter Medical
School, Exeter, Devon EX1 2LU, UK. z.pranjol@exeter.ac.uk. (2)Phage Therapy
Group, Department of Medicine, Burlington Danes Building, Imperial College
London, Hammersmith Hospital, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, UK.
a.hajitou@imperial.ac.uk.

Cancer gene therapy expanded and reached its pinnacle in research in the last
decade. Both viral and non-viral vectors have entered clinical trials, and
significant successes have been achieved. However, a systemic administration of a
vector, illustrating safe, efficient, and targeted gene delivery to solid tumors 
has proven to be a major challenge. In this review, we summarize the current
progress and challenges in the targeted gene therapy of cancer. Moreover, we
highlight the recent developments of bacteriophage-derived vectors and their
contributions in targeting cancer with therapeutic genes following systemic
administration.

PMCID: PMC4306838
PMID: 25606974  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


692. Ann Oncol. 2015 Jan 18. pii: mdv012. [Epub ahead of print]

Continuation or reintroduction of bevacizumab beyond progression to first-line
therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer: final results of the randomized BEBYP
trial.

Masi G(1), Salvatore L(2), Boni L(3), Loupakis F(2), Cremolini C(2), Fornaro
L(4), Schirripa M(2), Cupini S(5), Barbara C(5), Safina V(6), Granetto C(7), Fea 
E(7), Antonuzzo L(8), Boni C(9), Allegrini G(10), Chiara S(11), Amoroso D(12),
Bonetti A(13), Falcone A(2); on behalf of the BEBYP Study Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Oncology 2, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Pisana,
Istituto Toscano Tumori, Pisa gl.masi@tin.it. (2)Division of Medical Oncology 2, 
Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Pisana, Istituto Toscano Tumori, Pisa.
(3)Clinical Trials Coordinating Center, AOU Careggi/Istituto Toscano Tumori,
Firenze. (4)Division of Medical Oncology, Azienda USL 2 di Lucca, Istituto
Toscano Tumori, Lucca. (5)Division of Medical Oncology, Azienda USL 6 di Livorno,
Istituto Toscano Tumori, Livorno. (6)Division of Medical Oncology, Azienda USL 6 
di Livorno, Presidio Ospedaliero di Piombino, Istituto Toscano Tumori, Piombino. 
(7)Division of Medical Oncology, Ospedale S. Croce e Carle, Cuneo. (8)Division of
Medical Oncology 1, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Careggi, Istituto Toscano
Tumori, Firenze. (9)Division of Medical Oncology, Arcispedale Santa Maria
Nuova-IRCCS, Reggio Emilia. (10)Division of Medical Oncology, Azienda USL 5 di
Pisa, Ospedale Felice Lotti, Istituto Toscano Tumori, Pontedera. (11)Division of 
Medical Oncology, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria San Martino-Istituto
Nazionale Ricerca Cancro, Genova. (12)Division of Medical Oncology, Ospedale
della Versilia, Istituto Toscano Tumori, Lido di Camaiore. (13)Division of
Medical Oncology, AULSS 21 Legnago, Ospedale Mater Salutis, Legnago, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The combination of bevacizumab with fluorouracil-based chemotherapy
is a standard first-line treatment option in metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).
We studied the efficacy of continuing or reintroducing bevacizumab in combination
with second-line chemotherapy after progression to bevacizumab-based first-line
therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this phase III study, patients with mCRC treated with
fluoropyrimidine-based first-line chemotherapy plus bevacizumab were randomized
to receive in second-line mFOLFOX-6 or FOLFIRI (depending on first-line regimen) 
with or without bevacizumab. The primary end point was progression-free survival.
To detect a hazard ratio (HR) for progression of 0.70 with an α and β error of
0.05 and 0.20, respectively, 262 patients were required.
RESULTS: In consideration of the results of the ML18147 trial, the study was
prematurely stopped. Between April 2008 and May 2012, a total of 185 patients
were randomized. Bevacizumab-free interval was longer than 3 months in 43% of
patients in chemotherapy alone arm and in 50% of patients in the bevacizumab arm.
At a median follow-up of 45.3 months, the median progression-free survival was
5.0 months in the chemotherapy group and 6.8 months in the bevacizumab group
[adjusted HR = 0.70; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.52-0.95; stratified log-rank 
P = 0.010]. Subgroup analyses showed a consistent benefit in all subgroups
analyzed and in particular in patients who had continued or reintroduced
bevacizumab. An improved overall survival was also observed in the bevacizumab
arm (adjusted HR = 0.77; 95% CI 0.56-1.06; stratified log-rank P = 0.043).
Responses (RECIST 1.0) were similar in the chemotherapy and bevacizumab groups
(17% and 21%; P = 0.573). Toxicity profile was consistent with previously
reported data.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that the continuation or the reintroduction 
of bevacizumab with second-line chemotherapy beyond first progression improves
the outcome and supports the use of this strategy in the treatment of mCRC.
CLINICAL TRIALSGOV NUMBER: NCT00720512.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25600568  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


693. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2015 Jan 18. [Epub ahead of print]

Folate Receptor Targeted Liposomes Encapsulating Anti-Cancer Drugs.

Chaudhury A, Das S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research & Development, Procter & Gamble, 70 Biopolis Street, Singapore
138547, Republic of Singapore. surajitdas1982@yahoo.com.

Among all available lipid based nanoparticulate systems, the success of liposomal
drug delivery system is evident by the number of liposomal products available in 
the market or under advanced stages of preclinical and clinical trials. Liposome 
has the ability to deliver chemotherapeutic agents to the targeted tissues or
even inside the cancerous cells by enhanced intracellular penetration or improved
tumour targeting. In the last decade, folate receptor mediated tumour targeting
has emerged as an attractive alternative method of active targeting of cancer
cells through liposomes due to its numerous advantages over other targeting
methods. Folate receptors, also known as folate binding proteins, allow the
binding and internalization of folate or folic acid into the cells by a method
called folate receptor mediated endocytosis. They have restricted presence in
normal cells and are mostly expressed during malignant transformation. In this
review article, folate receptor targeting capability of liposomes has been
described. This review article has focussed on the different cancer drugs which
have been encapsulated in folate receptor targeted liposomes and their in vitro
as well as in vivo efficacy in several tumour models.

PMID: 25601598  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


694. Curr Treat Options Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan 18. [Epub ahead of print]

Therapeutic Manipulation of the Microbiome in IBD: Current Results and Future
Approaches.

Hansen JJ(1), Sartor RB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, CB 7032, 
Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA, jjhansen@med.unc.edu.

OPINION STATEMENT: Despite recent major strides in our understanding of the
genetic and microbial influences that contribute to the development of the
inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs), their etiology continues to be enigmatic.
Results from experiments in animal models of IBDs overwhelmingly support a causal
role of the microbiota in these diseases, though whether such a cause-effect
relationship exists in human IBDs is still uncertain. Therefore, virtually all
currently approved and most often prescribed treatments for IBDs are directed
toward the over-active immune response in these diseases rather than the
intestinal bacteria. Nevertheless, there is an important need for
non-immunosuppressive therapies that may present a more favorable risk-benefit
profile such as those that selectively target the disruptions in gut microbiota
that accompany IBDs. This need has led to clinical trials of various
microbial-directed therapies including fecal microbial transplant, antibiotics,
probiotics, and prebiotics. Unfortunately, these published studies, many of which
are small, have generally failed to demonstrate a consistent benefit of these
agents in IBDs, thus leading to slow acceptance of microbe-focused treatments for
these conditions. In this article, we review and summarize the microbial basis
for IBDs and the results of the most recent trials of fecal microbial transplant,
antibiotics, probiotics, and prebiotics in IBDs. We also comment on possible
safety concerns with these agents, speculate on why they have failed to show
efficacy in certain clinical settings, and propose strategies to improve their
usefulness.

PMID: 25595930  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


695. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015 Jan 18. pii: gfu392. [Epub ahead of print]

The long-term outcomes of systemic vasculitis.

Westman K(1), Flossmann O(2), Gregorini G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology, Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Skane University
Hospital Malmö, Lund, Sweden. (2)Department of Nephrology, Royal Berkshire
Hospital, Reading, UK. (3)Department of Nephrology, A.O. Spedali Civili, Brescia,
Italy.

Patients with generalized ANCA-associated small vessel vasculitis (AAV) have a
very poor outcome if the ANCA-associated vasculitis is not diagnosed, evaluated
and treated properly. The introduction of treatment with immunosuppressive
therapy has improved patient survival dramatically but with considerable side
effects. Besides, almost 50% of surviving patients experience a relapse of
vasculitis. Since 1995, the European Vasculitis Society (EUVAS) has designed and 
conducted several clinical trials on patients with AAV independently of
pharmaceutical companies. The studies included patients with newly diagnosed AAV 
and were stratified according to renal function and generalized versus more
localized forms. As the immediate patient survival has improved, the longer term 
outcome has become more important. There are several reports on outcome of
patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis, but the patient groups were
heterogeneous regarding diagnosis as well as treatment and follow-up. Therefore, 
EUVAS decided to further evaluate the effect and possible adverse events of the
original randomized trials. This review presents an overview on long-term
follow-up of patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis, with focus on relapse
rate, patient and renal survival and development of cardiovascular disease and
malignancy.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of ERA-EDTA.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25601266  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


696. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015 Jan 18. pii: gfu410. [Epub ahead of print]

Qualitative research methods in renal medicine: an introduction.

Bristowe K(1), Selman L(1), Murtagh FE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Palliative Care, Policy and Rehabilitation, King's College
London, Cicely Saunders Institute, London SE5 9PJ, UK.

Qualitative methodologies are becoming increasingly widely used in health
research. However, within some specialties, including renal medicine, qualitative
approaches remain under-represented in the high-impact factor journals.
Qualitative research can be undertaken: (i) as a stand-alone research method,
addressing specific research questions; (ii) as part of a mixed methods approach 
alongside quantitative approaches or (iii) embedded in clinical trials, or during
the development of complex interventions. The aim of this paper is to introduce
qualitative research, including the rationale for choosing qualitative
approaches, and guidance for ensuring quality when undertaking and reporting
qualitative research. In addition, we introduce types of qualitative data
(observation, interviews and focus groups) as well as some of the most commonly
encountered methodological approaches (case studies, ethnography, phenomenology, 
grounded theory, thematic analysis, framework analysis and content analysis).

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of ERA-EDTA.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25601265  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


697. World J Orthop. 2015 Jan 18;6(1):42-55. doi: 10.5312/wjo.v6.i1.42. eCollection
2015.

Current and future medical therapeutic strategies for the functional repair of
spinal cord injury.

Yılmaz T(1), Kaptanoğlu E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tevfik Yılmaz, Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, Dicle
University, Diyarbakır 21280, Turkey.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to social and psychological problems in patients
and requires costly treatment and care. In recent years, various pharmacological 
agents have been tested for acute SCI. Large scale, prospective, randomized,
controlled clinical trials have failed to demonstrate marked neurological benefit
in contrast to their success in the laboratory. Today, the most important problem
is ineffectiveness of nonsurgical treatment choices in human SCI that showed
neuroprotective effects in animal studies. Recently, attempted cellular therapy
and transplantations are promising. A better understanding of the pathophysiology
of SCI started in the early 1980s. Research had been looking at neuroprotection
in the 1980s and the first half of 1990s and regeneration studies started in the 
second half of the 1990s. A number of studies on surgical timing suggest that
early surgical intervention is safe and feasible, can improve clinical and
neurological outcomes and reduce health care costs, and minimize the secondary
damage caused by compression of the spinal cord after trauma. This article
reviews current evidence for early surgical decompression and nonsurgical
treatment options, including pharmacological and cellular therapy, as the
treatment choices for SCI.

PMCID: PMC4303789
PMID: 25621210  [PubMed]


698. Atherosclerosis. 2015 Jan 17;239(1):178-185. doi:
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2015.01.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Palmolein and olive oil consumed within a high protein test meal have similar
effects on postprandial endothelial function in overweight and obese men: A
randomized controlled trial.

Stonehouse W(1), Brinkworth GD(2), Noakes M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research Organisation, Food and Nutrition
Flagship, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. Electronic address:
welma.stonehouse@csiro.au. (2)Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research
Organisation, Food and Nutrition Flagship, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: This study assessed the postprandial effects of high fat, high protein
meals containing either palmolein or olive oil on endothelial function in
overweight/obese men.
DESIGN: 28 men (32-65 yr; 25-35 kg/m(2)) consumed, in random order 1 wk apart,
isocaloric high protein, high fat meals (2791 kJ, 40 g protein (∼3 g l-arginine),
44 g fat, 21 g carbohydrate) prepared with either 40 g palmolein or 40 g olive
oil after an overnight fast. The SFA:MUFA:PUFA ratio of the oils were: palmolein,
42:47:12; olive oil, 17:76:7. Brachial artery flow-mediated dilatation (FMD),
circulating endothelial function markers, nitrotyrosine (oxidative stress
marker), triglycerides, glucose and insulin were assessed pre-meal and hourly for
5 h. Mixed model procedures were used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: Meal consumption increased serum triglycerides (time effect, P < 0.001);
with no meal differences (meal × time interaction, P = 0.93). Serum insulin
peaked 1 h post-consumption and returned to pre-meal concentrations by 5 h with
both meals (time effect, P < 0.001; meal × time effect, P = 0.68). FMD, serum
intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and E-selectin did not change
(meal × time effect, P > 0.4). Olive oil transiently increased plasma
nitrotyrosine after 1 h compared to palmolein (meal × time interaction,
P = 0.002) whereas both meals increased serum vascular cell adhesion molecule-1
(VCAM-1) after 1 h (time effect, P < 0.001; meal × time interaction, P = 0.98).
Both nitrotyrosine and VCAM-1 returned to pre-meal concentrations after 2 h.
CONCLUSION: In the context of a high protein meal, palmolein similarly to olive
oil did not affect postprandial endothelial function in overweight/obese men.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR)
(http://www.anzctr.org.au/default.aspx). Trial ID: ACTRN12613000136707.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25617858  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


699. Biol Res. 2015 Jan 17;48(1):6. [Epub ahead of print]

The TLR7 agonist Imiquimod promote the immunogenicity of msenchymal stem cells.

Zhang L, Liu D, Pu D, Wang Y, Li L, He Y, Li Y, Li L, Li W.

BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are considered the best candidate in
stem cells therapy due to their multipotent differentiation ability, low
expression of co-stimulatory molecules (CD80, CD86, CD34 and HLA-II) and
immunosuppression effects on in vivo immune responses. MSCs were now widely used 
in clinical trials but received no encourage results. The major problem was the
fate of engrafted MSCs in vivo could not be defined. Some studies indicated that 
MSCs could induce immune response and result in the damage and rejection of MSCs.
As toll like receptors (TLRs) are important in inducing of immune responses, in
this study we study the role of TLR7 in mediating the immune status of MSCs
isolated from umbilical cord.
RESULTS: Our results indicated that TLR7 agonist Imiquimod could increase the
proliferation of PBMC isolated from healthy human volunteers and release of
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in supernatant from PBMC-UCMSCs co-culture system.
Flow cytometry and quantitative PCR also confirmed the regulated expression of
surface co-stimulatory molecules and pro-inflammatory genes (IL-6, IL-8, IL-12,
TGF-β and TNF-α). And the down-regulation expression of stem cell markers also
confirmed the loss of stemness of UCMSCs. We also found that the
osteo-differentiation ability of UCMSCs was enhanced in the presence of
Imiquimod.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first report that activation of TLR7
pathway increases the immunogenicity of UCMSCs. Extensive researches have now
been conducted to study whether the change of immune status will be help in tumor
rejection based on the tumor-tropism of MSCs.

PMID: 25654296  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


700. BMC Public Health. 2015 Jan 17;15(1):10. [Epub ahead of print]

Factors associated with willingness to participate in clinical trials: a
nationwide survey study.

Chu S, Kim E, Jeong S, Park G.

BackgroundThis study was conducted to investigate awareness of clinical trials
(CTs) including perceptions of favorable feelings about, necessity for, and
safety of CTs, the ultimate beneficiary of CTs and the factors associated with
willingness to participate in CTs among the general population in South
Korea.MethodsA cross sectional survey study was conducted in a randomly selected 
national sample of 1,515 Korean.ResultsPerception toward CTs was measured using a
scale from 0 (strongly disagree) to 10 (strongly agree). Respondents readily
understood the necessity for CTs (M¿=¿7.27, SD¿=¿2.15); had moderately favorable 
feelings (M¿=¿5.32, SD¿=¿2.31) toward CTs and felt that these CTs were moderately
safe (M¿=¿4.71, SD¿=¿1.90). Twenty-five percent of the respondents answered that 
they would be willing to participate in a CT in the future. Perception of the
ultimate benefits of CTs, awareness, favorable feelings, safety, and necessity
regarding CTs were identified as significant predictors of willingness to
participate in CTs.ConclusionAn awareness of CTs and the perceptions toward CTs
were associated with general public willingness to participate in a CT. Findings 
from this study can be used in planning outreach and recruitment strategies, and 
to understand the predictors of CT participation.

PMCID: PMC4306240
PMID: 25595373  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


701. Gynecol Oncol. 2015 Jan 17. pii: S0090-8258(15)00537-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ygyno.2015.01.533. [Epub ahead of print]

HER2 over-expressing high grade endometrial cancer expresses high levels of
p95HER2 variant.

Growdon WB(1), Groeneweg J(2), Byron V(2), DiGloria C(2), Borger DR(3), Tambouret
R(4), Foster R(5), Chenna A(6), Sperinde J(6), Winslow J(6), Rueda BR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Vincent Center for Reproductive Biology, Vincent Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States;
Gynecologic Oncology Division, Vincent Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States; Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02115, United States. Electronic address:
wgrowdon@partners.org. (2)Vincent Center for Reproductive Biology, Vincent
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA 02114, United States. (3)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of
Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States; Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, United States. (4)Department of Pathology,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States; Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02115, United States. (5)Vincent Center for Reproductive
Biology, Vincent Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States; Gynecologic Oncology Division, Vincent
Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA
02114, United States; Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, United States.
(6)Monogram Biosciences, San Francisco, CA 94080, United States.

BACKGROUND: Subsets of high grade endometrial cancer (EnCa) over-express HER2
(ERBB2), yet clinical trials have failed to demonstrate any anti-tumor activity
utilizing trastuzumab, an approved platform for HER2 positive breast cancer
(BrCa). A truncated p95HER2 variant lacking the trastuzumab binding site may
confer resistance. The objective of this investigation was to characterize the
expression of the p95HER2 truncated variant in EnCa.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With institutional approval, 86 high grade EnCa tumors
were identified with tumor specimens from surgeries performed between 2000 and
2011. Clinical data were collected and all specimens underwent tumor genotyping, 
HER2 immunohistochemistry (IHC, HercepTest®), HER2 fluorescent in situ
hybridization (FISH), along with total HER2 (H2T) and p95HER2 assessment with
VeraTag® testing. Regression models were used to compare a cohort of 86 breast
tumors selected for equivalent HER2 protein expression.
RESULTS: We identified 44 high grade endometrioid and 42 uterine serous
carcinomas (USC). IHC identified high HER2 expression (2+ or 3+) in 59% of the
tumors. HER2 gene amplification was observed in 16 tumors (12 USC, 4
endometrioid). Both HER2 gene amplification and protein expression correlated
with H2T values. High p95HER2 expression above 2.8RF/mm(2) was observed in 53%
(n=54) with significant correlation with H2T levels. When matched to a cohort of 
107 breast tumors based on HercepTest HER2 expression, high grade EnCa presented 
with higher p95 levels (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that compared to BrCa, high grade EnCa
expresses higher levels of p95HER2 possibly providing rationale for the
trastuzumab resistance observed in EnCa.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25602714  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


702. J Acad Nutr Diet. 2015 Jan 17. pii: S2212-2672(14)01763-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jand.2014.11.016. [Epub ahead of print]

A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Changes in Body Weight in Clinical
Trials of Vegetarian Diets.

Barnard ND, Levin SM, Yokoyama Y.

In observational studies, vegetarians generally have lower body weights compared 
with omnivores. However, weight changes that occur when vegetarian diets are
prescribed have not been well quantified. We estimated the effect on body weight 
when vegetarian diets are prescribed. We searched PubMed, EMBASE, and the
Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials for articles through December 31, 
2013. Additional articles were identified from reference lists. We included
intervention trials in which participants were adults, interventions included
vegetarian diets of ≥4 weeks' duration without energy intake limitations, and
effects on body weight were reported. Two investigators independently extracted
data using predetermined fields. Estimates of body weight change, comparing
intervention groups to untreated control groups, were derived using a random
effects model to estimate the weighted mean difference. To quantify effects on
body weight of baseline weight, sex, age, study duration, study goals, type of
diet, and study authorship, additional analyses examined within-group changes for
all studies reporting variance data. We identified 15 trials (17 intervention
groups), of which 4 included untreated controls. Prescription of vegetarian diets
was associated with a mean weight change of -3.4 kg (95% CI -4.4 to -2.4;
P<0.001) in an intention-to-treat analysis and -4.6 kg (95% CI -5.4 to -3.8;
P<0.001) in a completer analysis (omitting missing post-intervention values).
Greater weight loss was reported in studies with higher baseline weights, smaller
proportions of female participants, older participants, or longer durations, and 
in studies in which weight loss was a goal. Using baseline data for missing
values, I(2) equaled 52.3 (P=0.10), indicating moderate heterogeneity. When
missing data were omitted, I(2) equaled 0 (P=0.65), indicating low heterogeneity.
Studies are relatively few, with variable quality. The prescription of vegetarian
diets reduces mean body weight, suggesting potential value for prevention and
management of weight-related conditions.

Copyright © 2015 Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620754  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


703. Prev Med. 2015 Jan 17. pii: S0091-7435(14)00511-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ypmed.2014.12.029. [Epub ahead of print]

Acceptability of financial incentives for encouraging uptake of healthy
behaviours: A critical review using systematic methods.

Giles EL(1), Robalino S(2), Sniehotta FF(3), Adams J(4), McColl E(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Baddiley-Clark
Building, Newcastle upon Tyne, Tyne and Wear NE2 4AX, UK. Electronic address:
e.l.giles@ncl.ac.uk. (2)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University,
Baddiley-Clark Building, Newcastle upon Tyne, Tyne and Wear NE2 4AX, UK.
Electronic address: Shannon.robalino@ncl.ac.uk. (3)Institute of Health and
Society, Newcastle University, Baddiley-Clark Building, Newcastle upon Tyne, Tyne
and Wear NE2 4AX, UK. Electronic address: falko.sniehotta@ncl.ac.uk. (4)Institute
of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Baddiley-Clark Building, Newcastle
upon Tyne, Tyne and Wear NE2 4AX, UK. Electronic address: jean.adams@ncl.ac.uk.
(5)Newcastle Clinical Trials Unit, Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle
University, 4th Floor William Leech Building, The Medical School, Framlington
Place, Newcastle upon Tyne, Tyne and Wear NE2 4HH, UK. Electronic address:
elaine.mccoll@ncl.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVE: Financial incentives are effective in encouraging healthy behaviours, 
yet concerns about acceptability remain. We conducted a systematic review
exploring acceptability of financial incentives for encouraging healthy
behaviours.
METHODS: Database, reference, and citation searches were conducted from the
earliest available date to October 2014, to identify empirical studies and
scholarly writing that: had an English language title, were published in a
peer-reviewed journal, and explored acceptability of financial incentives for
health behaviours in members of the public, potential recipients, potential
practitioners or policy makers. Data was analysed using thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Eighty one papers were included: 59 pieces of scholarly writing and 22
empirical studies, primarily exploring acceptability to the public. Five themes
were identified: fair exchange, design and delivery, effectiveness and
cost-effectiveness, recipients, and impact on individuals and wider society.
Although there was consensus that if financial incentives are effective and cost 
effective they are likely to be considered acceptable, a number of other factors 
also influenced acceptability.
CONCLUSIONS: Financial incentives tend to be acceptable to the public when they
are effective and cost-effective. Programmes that benefit recipients and wider
society; are considered fair; and are delivered to individuals deemed appropriate
are likely to be considered more acceptable.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25600881  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


704. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2015 Jan 16. doi: 10.1111/acps.12374. [Epub ahead of print]

Second-generation antipsychotic effect on cognition in patients with
schizophrenia-a meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials.

Nielsen RE(1), Levander S, Kjaersdam Telléus G, Jensen SO, Østergaard Christensen
T, Leucht S.

Author information: 
(1)Aalborg University Hospital, Psychiatry, Aalborg, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of second-generation antipsychotics on
cognitive function in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or schizoaffective
disorder.
METHOD: Multiple-treatments meta-analysis model.
RESULTS: On cognitive composite score, sertindole was superior to clozapine,
effect size (ES) 0.87; 95% CI: 0.12-1.63, quetiapine, ES 0.75; 95% CI: 0.00-1.49,
and first-generation antipsychotics (FGAs), ES 0.89; 95% CI: 0.14-1.64. Analyses 
on each cognitive domain showed clozapine, ES 0.37; 95% CI: 0.00-0.74,
olanzapine, ES 0.31; 95%CI: 0.02-0.59, quetiapine, ES 0.34; 95% CI: 0.03-0.64,
and FGAs, ES 0.51; 95% CI: 0.18-0.83 performing poorer on verbal working memory
than ziprasidone, as well as FGAs performing poorer than risperidone, ES 0.31;
95% CI: 0.04-0.58. On executive function, sertindole performed better than
clozapine, ES 0.82; 95% CI: 0.06-1.58, olanzapine, ES 0.81; 95% CI: 0.07-1.55,
quetiapine, ES 0.76; 95% CI: 0.02-1.51, ziprasidone, ES 0.90; 95% CI: 0.14-1.67, 
and FGAs, ES 0.83; 95% CI: 0.08-1.58. On processing speed, FGAs performed poorer 
than sertindole, ES 0.97; 95% CI: 0.02-1.91, and quetiapine, ES 0.36; 95% CI:
0.01-0.72. On long-term verbal working memory, clozapine performed poorer than
olanzapine, ES 0.41; 95% CI: 0.06-0.76. On verbal fluency, FGAs performed poorer 
than olanzapine, ES 0.26; 95% CI: 0.01-0.50, and clozapine, ES 0.44; 95% CI:
0.06-0.81. Lastly, FGAs, ES 0.41; 95% CI: 0.04-0.78, and clozapine, ES 0.44; 95% 
CI: 0.05-0.83, performed poorer on visuospatial skill compared to olanzapine.
CONCLUSION: The meta-analysis was able to detect some trends in the data
analyzed, but did not show any drug having a uniform positive cognitive profile.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25597383  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


705. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Jan 16. [Epub ahead of print]

Ampakines Enhance Weak Endogenous Respiratory Drive and Alleviate Apnea in
Perinatal Rats.

Ren J(1), Ding X, Greer JJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Alberta, Physiology, Edmonon, Alberta, Canada ; ren@ualberta.ca.

Rationale: Apnea of prematurity, which is prevalent amongst infants born at less 
than 34 weeks gestation, is treated with caffeine, theophylline or aminophylline.
However, not all newborns respond adequately to, or tolerate, methylxanthine
administration and thus alternative pharmacological therapies are required.
Objectives: Rodent models are used to test the hypothesis that the ampakine
CX1739, a positive allosteric modulator of
amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors, strengthens perinatal
respiratory drive and reduces apneas. We also provide a systematic study of the
effects of caffeine for comparison. Methods: Respiratory neural activity was
recorded from brainstem-spinal cord in vitro perinatal rat preparations and
minute ventilation was recorded in newborn rat pups using whole body
plethysmography under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Measurements and Main
Results: Using in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparations, we found that CX1739 
(10-100 μM) dose-dependently increases the frequency of respiratory activity
generated by fetal and newborn rat preparations under normoxic and hypoxic
conditions. Plethysmographic recordings in vivo from postnatal day 0 rats
demonstrated that CX1739 (40 μM) increases the frequency and regularity of
ventilation, reduces apneas and protects against hypoxia-induced respiratory
depression. Conclusions: The net effect of ampakine enhancement of respiratory
drive in perinatal rodents is a marked increase in ventilation and the regularity
of respiratory patterns in perinatal rat preparations. Importantly, from the
perspective of clinical applications, CX1739 readily crosses the blood-brain
barrier, is metabolically stable, and has passed through Phase I and II clinical 
trials in adults. Key words: apnea of prematurity, respiration, newborn,
caffeine, breathing.

PMID: 25594679  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


706. Ann Oncol. 2015 Jan 16. pii: mdv003. [Epub ahead of print]

Impact of age and medical comorbidity on adjuvant treatment outcomes for stage
III colon cancer: a pooled analysis of individual patient data from four
randomized controlled trials.

Haller DG(1), O'Connell MJ(2), Cartwright TH(3), Twelves CJ(4), McKenna EF(5),
Sun W(6), Saif MW(7), Lee S(5), Yothers G(8), Schmoll HJ(9).

Author information: 
(1)Abramson Cancer Center at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA,
USA daniel.haller@uphs.upenn.edu. (2)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel 
Project (NSABP), Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (3)Florida Cancer Affiliates, Ocala, FL,
USA. (4)Leeds Institute of Cancer and Pathology and St. James's University
Hospital, Leeds, UK. (5)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA.
(6)University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (7)Tufts
University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA. (8)NSABP Biostatistical Center
and University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public Health Department of
Biostatistics, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. (9)University Clinic, Martin Luther
University, Halle (Saale), Germany.

BACKGROUND: Adjuvant oxaliplatin plus capecitabine or leucovorin/5-fluorouracil
(LV/5-FU) (XELOX/FOLFOX) is the standard of care for stage III colon cancer (CC);
however, there is disagreement regarding oxaliplatin benefit in patients aged
>70. In most analyses the impact of medical comorbidity (MC) has not been
assessed. Efficacy and safety of adjuvant XELOX/FOLFOX versus LV/5-FU were
compared with respect to age and MC using pooled data from four randomized
controlled trials, selected for access to patient-level MC data and including
commonly endorsed and utilized regimens.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Individual data from patients with stage III CC in NSABP
C-08, XELOXA, X-ACT, and AVANT were pooled, excluding bevacizumab-treated
patients. Patients were grouped by treatment, MC (low versus high), or age (<70
versus ≥70), and compared for disease-free and overall survival (DFS, OS), and
adverse events (AEs). Multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression
controlled for gender, T-, and N-stage.
RESULTS: DFS benefits were shown for XELOX/FOLFOX versus LV/5-FU regardless of
age or MC, although benefits were modestly attenuated for patients ≥70. Hazard
ratios were 0.68 (P<0.0001) and 0.77 (P<0.014) for <70 and ≥70 age groups; 0.69
(P<0.0001) and 0.59 (P<0.0001) for Charlson Comorbidity Index ≤1 and >1 groups;
and 0.70 (P<0.0001) and 0.58 (P<0.0001) for National Cancer Institute Combined
Index ≤1 and >1 groups. OS was also significantly improved in all groups. Grade
3/4 serious AE rates were comparable across cohorts and MC scores and higher in
patients aged ≥70. Oxaliplatin-relevant grade 3/4 AEs, including neuropathy, were
comparable across ages and MC scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Results further support consideration of XELOX or FOLFOX as standard
treatment options for the adjuvant management of stage III CC in all age groups
and in patients with comorbidities, consistent with those who were eligible for
these clinical trials.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 25595934  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


707. Biom J. 2015 Jan 16. doi: 10.1002/bimj.201400046. [Epub ahead of print]

Influence of trial duration on the bias of the estimated treatment effect in
clinical trials when individual heterogeneity is ignored.

Cécilia-Joseph E(1), Auvert B, Broët P, Moreau T.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm U1018, CESP Centre for Research in Epidemiology and Population Health, 
Villejuif, France; Faculté de Médecine, University Paris-Sud, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre,
France.

In randomized clinical trials where the times to event of two treatment groups
are compared under a proportional hazards assumption, it has been established
that omitting prognostic factors from the model entails an underestimation of the
hazards ratio. Heterogeneity due to unobserved covariates in cancer patient
populations is a concern since genomic investigations have revealed molecular and
clinical heterogeneity in these populations. In HIV prevention trials,
heterogeneity is unavoidable and has been shown to decrease the treatment effect 
over time. This article assesses the influence of trial duration on the bias of
the estimated hazards ratio resulting from omitting covariates from the Cox
analysis. The true model is defined by including an unobserved random frailty
term in the individual hazard that reflects the omitted covariate. Three frailty 
distributions are investigated: gamma, log-normal, and binary, and the asymptotic
bias of the hazards ratio estimator is calculated. We show that the attenuation
of the treatment effect resulting from unobserved heterogeneity strongly
increases with trial duration, especially for continuous frailties that are
likely to reflect omitted covariates, as they are often encountered in practice. 
The possibility of interpreting the long-term decrease in treatment effects as a 
bias induced by heterogeneity and trial duration is illustrated by a trial in
oncology where adjuvant chemotherapy in stage 1B NSCLC was investigated.

© 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

PMID: 25597640  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


708. Cancer Discov. 2015 Jan 16. [Epub ahead of print]

Multiple Myeloma Yields to CD38 Inhibitors.

[No authors listed]

Early reports from ongoing phase 1b clinical trials suggest that monoclonal
antibodies that bind to the CD38 protein on multiple myeloma cells yield
responses in patients.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

PMID: 25596281  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


709. Clin Ther. 2015 Jan 16. pii: S0149-2918(14)00870-4. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2014.12.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Simeprevir and Sofosbuvir for Treatment of Chronic Hepatitis C Infection.

Childs-Kean LM(1), Hand EO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, University of
Florida College of Pharmacy, Seminole, Florida. Electronic address:
Lchilds-kean@cop.ufl.edu. (2)Department of Pharmacotherapy, The University of
Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio Pharmacotherapy Education and Research Center, San Antonio,
Texas.

PURPOSE: Chronic hepatitis C infection affects a large proportion of the world's 
population and can lead to significant morbidity and mortality. The standard of
care for treatment of hepatitis C infection has been peginterferon and ribavirin,
with or without a first-generation protease inhibitor. In late 2013 and early
2014, sofosbuvir and simeprevir obtained regulatory approval, offering the first 
possibility for all-oral treatment regimens. We provide a review of the clinical 
efficacy and safety of sofosbuvir- and simeprevir-containing regimens.
METHODS: Studies were identified in PubMed using the terms sofosbuvir and
simeprevir in combination with hepatitis C. Abstracts of additional studies
presented at professional meetings but not yet published were also reviewed. All 
Phase 3 trials published by August 1, 2014, as well as Phase 2 studies for which 
there was not a corresponding Phase 3 trial, were included in the review.
FINDINGS: Simeprevir was studied with peginterferon and ribavirin in 7 published 
Phase 3 trials, with overall efficacy rates of 59% to 100%. Sofosbuvir was
studied with ribavirin and with or without peginterferon in 6 Phase 3 trials with
overall efficacy rates of 50% to 93%. Patient groups with lower response rates
tended to have cirrhosis and be older, men, and previous null responders.
Simeprevir and sofosbuvir were studied in combination in 1 Phase 2a study with
overall efficacy of 92%. Additional studies demonstrated the efficacy and safety 
of sofosbuvir regimens in patients before and after liver transplantation.
Overall, the simeprevir- and sofosbuvir-containing regimens were tolerated better
or as well as peginterferon and ribavirin regimens, with fatigue, headache, and
nausea the most common adverse events.
IMPLICATIONS: Results from numerous Phase 3 clinical trials indicate that
sofosbuvir- and simeprevir-containing regimens are highly effective and safe for 
the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection. The approval of these 2 agents
has led to a complete overhaul of published guidelines, with sofosbuvir- and
simeprevir-containing regimens included in preferred regimens.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25601269  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


710. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2015 Jan 16. pii: S2213-2198(14)00507-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jaip.2014.10.010. [Epub ahead of print]

The Use of Anti-IgE Therapy Beyond Allergic Asthma.

Stokes JR(1), Casale TB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Allergy/Immunology, Creighton University, Omaha, Neb. Electronic
address: jstokes@creighton.edu. (2)Division of Allergy/Immunology, University of 
South Florida, Tampa, Fla.

Omalizumab is a monoclonal anti-IgE antibody that has been used to treat allergic
asthma for over a decade. The use of omalizumab to treat other diseases has
largely been limited to case reports until the recently reported large
multicenter studies that have established omalizumab as an effective treatment
option for chronic spontaneous urticaria. The utility of omalizumab to treat
nonallergic asthma and allergic rhinitis and the added safety and therapeutic
benefits in combination with allergen immunotherapy have been demonstrated in
placebo-controlled trials. Data supporting the clinical efficacy of omalizumab in
treating atopic dermatitis, physical urticarias, mast cell disorders, food
allergy, and various other allergic disorders have shown promise in small
clinical trials and case studies. More carefully designed, large clinical trials 
of high quality are needed to fully appreciate the potential of omalizumab in
treating various allergic and nonallergic diseases.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25609342  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


711. J Gene Med. 2015 Jan 16. doi: 10.1002/jgm.2818. [Epub ahead of print]

IDUA gene based therapy using phiC31 system to treat MPSI mice.

Stilhano RS(1), Martin PK, de Melo SM, Samoto VY, Peres GB, Michelacci YM, da
Silva FH, Pereira VG, D'Almeida V, da Cruz AT, Jasiulionis MG, Han SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Mucopolysaccharidose type I (MPSI) is a lysosomal monogenic disease
caused by mutations in IDUA gene. MPSI patients need a constant supply of
α-L-iduronidase (IDUA) to alleviate disease progression. IDUA gene transfer using
integrative vectors could be a definitive solution and support advancement to
clinical trials, but studies have not yet been satisfactory. To achieve a stable 
IDUA gene expression in vivo, phiC31 was tested here.
METHODS: Several plasmid vectors were constructed and IDUA-/- mice were treated
with cyclophosphamide and transfected with these vectors hydrodynamically via
tail veins. IDUA expression was monitored overtime. The treated and non-treated
mice were undergone to open field test at the age 8 month-old, and IDUA activity 
and Glycosaminoglycan (GAG) contents of tissues were evaluate.
RESULTS: High levels of IDUA activity were detected initially (>1000U/ml), but
these levels decayed over time. The reinjection of vectors produced a similar
profile of IDUA decay. In three out of six treated mice had IDUA activity in the 
livers, showed lower GAG contents, reduced lysosomes and better locomotion. To
investigate the unsustained IDUA production, wild-type mice were submitted to the
same gene therapy procedure, which generated a similar profile of IDUA decay.
Anti-IDUA antibody was detected in the sera of these animals. In addition, we
also found 3 methylated sites in the CMV promoter region gene therapy.
CONCLUSION: The phiC31 mediated gene therapy resulted an important improvement in
IDUA-/- mice, including locomotion, but we also highlighted obstacles to be
overcome to reach a long-term gene therapy for MPSI. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25597593  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


712. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2015 Jan 16. [Epub ahead of print]

Adeno-associated Virus Vector Based Gene Therapy for Monogenetic Metabolic
Diseases of the Liver.

Junge N(1), Mingozzi F, Ott M, Baumann U.

Author information: 
(1)*Paediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Children's Hospital, Hannover
Medical School, Hannover, Germany †Genethon2, Evry, France, University Pierre and
Marie Curie, Paris, France ‡Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Endocrinology3,
Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany and Twincore, Centre for Experimental 
and Clinical Infection Research, Hannover.

Liver based metabolic diseases account for a substantial burden of childhood
diseases. In most cases, treatment is often limited to supportive measures and
liver transplantation is ultimately required. Even despite the Abstract excellent
long-term outcome of liver transplantation, the procedure is still associated
with significant morbidity and mortality. Gene therapy in contrast has great
potential to save lives, to improve quality of life, and to offer less risks and 
side effects compared to current therapies including liver transplantation. The
most promising results to date in liver gene transfer have been achieved with
adeno-associated virus. Although safety issues, such as immunogenicity of vector 
and/or transgene product remain important concern, gene therapy is ready for
clinical trials in adults and adolescents. Developing and testing safe approaches
for efficient and long-term stable applications in newborns and small children,
such as targeted integration and gene correction, is one of the remaining future 
challenges.

PMID: 25594875  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


713. Lancet. 2015 Jan 16. pii: S0140-6736(14)62447-8. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62447-8. [Epub ahead of print]

Adjunct prednisone therapy for patients with community-acquired pneumonia: a
multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial.

Blum CA(1), Nigro N(2), Briel M(3), Schuetz P(4), Ullmer E(5), Suter-Widmer I(2),
Winzeler B(2), Bingisser R(6), Elsaesser H(5), Drozdov D(4), Arici B(1), Urwyler 
SA(2), Refardt J(2), Tarr P(7), Wirz S(7), Thomann R(8), Baumgartner C(9),
Duplain H(10), Burki D(11), Zimmerli W(5), Rodondi N(9), Mueller B(4),
Christ-Crain M(12).

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology, Diabetology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine and
Department of Clinical Research, University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland;
Medical University Clinic, Departments of Internal and Emergency Medicine and
Department of Endocrinology, Diabetology and Clinical Nutrition, Kantonsspital
Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland. (2)Endocrinology, Diabetology and Metabolism,
Department of Internal Medicine and Department of Clinical Research, University
Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland. (3)Basel Institute for Clinical Epidemiology 
and Biostatistics, Department of Clinical Research, University Hospital Basel,
Basel, Switzerland; Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. (4)Medical University Clinic,
Departments of Internal and Emergency Medicine and Department of Endocrinology,
Diabetology and Clinical Nutrition, Kantonsspital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland.
(5)Medical University Clinic, Kantonsspital Baselland/Liestal, Liestal,
Switzerland. (6)Emergency Department, University Hospital Basel, Basel,
Switzerland. (7)Medical University Clinic, Kantonsspital Baselland/Bruderholz,
Bruderholz, Switzerland. (8)Department of Internal Medicine, Bürgerspital,
Solothurn, Switzerland. (9)Department of General Internal Medicine, Inselspital, 
Bern University Hospital, Bern, Switzerland. (10)Clinic of Internal Medicine,
Hôpital du Jura, Site de Delémont, Delémont, Switzerland. (11)Viollier AG,
Postfach, Basel, Switzerland. (12)Endocrinology, Diabetology and Metabolism,
Department of Internal Medicine and Department of Clinical Research, University
Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: mirjam.christ@usb.ch.

BACKGROUND: Clinical trials yielded conflicting data about the benefit of adding 
systemic corticosteroids for treatment of community-acquired pneumonia. We
assessed whether short-term corticosteroid treatment reduces time to clinical
stability in patients admitted to hospital for community-acquired pneumonia.
METHODS: In this double-blind, multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled trial,
we recruited patients aged 18 years or older with community-acquired pneumonia
from seven tertiary care hospitals in Switzerland within 24 h of presentation.
Patients were randomly assigned (1:1 ratio) to receive either prednisone 50 mg
daily for 7 days or placebo. The computer-generated randomisation was done with
variable block sizes of four to six and stratified by study centre. The primary
endpoint was time to clinical stability defined as time (days) until stable vital
signs for at least 24 h, and analysed by intention to treat. This trial is
registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00973154.
FINDINGS: From Dec 1, 2009, to May 21, 2014, of 2911 patients assessed for
eligibility, 785 patients were randomly assigned to either the prednisone group
(n=392) or the placebo group (n=393). Median time to clinical stability was
shorter in the prednisone group (3·0 days, IQR 2·5-3·4) than in the placebo group
(4·4 days, 4·0-5·0; hazard ratio [HR] 1·33, 95% CI 1·15-1·50, p<0·0001).
Pneumonia-associated complications until day 30 did not differ between groups (11
[3%] in the prednisone group and 22 [6%] in the placebo group; odds ratio [OR]
0·49 [95% CI 0·23-1·02]; p=0·056). The prednisone group had a higher incidence of
in-hospital hyperglycaemia needing insulin treatment (76 [19%] vs 43 [11%]; OR
1·96, 95% CI 1·31-2·93, p=0·0010). Other adverse events compatible with
corticosteroid use were rare and similar in both groups.
INTERPRETATION: Prednisone treatment for 7 days in patients with
community-acquired pneumonia admitted to hospital shortens time to clinical
stability without an increase in complications. This finding is relevant from a
patient perspective and an important determinant of hospital costs and
efficiency.
FUNDING: Swiss National Science Foundation, Viollier AG, Nora van Meeuwen
Haefliger Stiftung, Julia und Gottfried Bangerter-Rhyner Stiftung.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25608756  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


714. Mar Drugs. 2015 Jan 16;13(1):618-654.

Marine Peptides and Their Anti-Infective Activities.

Kang HK(1), Seo CH(2), Park Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Chosun University, Gwangju 501-759, Korea.
hkkang129@gmail.com. (2)Department of Bioinformatics, Kongju National University,
Kongju 314-701, Korea. chseo@kongju.ac.kr. (3)Department of Biomedical Science,
Chosun University, Gwangju 501-759, Korea. y_k_park@chosun.ac.kr.

Marine bioresources are a valuable source of bioactive compounds with industrial 
and nutraceutical potential. Numerous clinical trials evaluating novel
chemotherapeutic agents derived from marine sources have revealed novel
mechanisms of action. Recently, marine-derived bioactive peptides have attracted 
attention owing to their numerous beneficial effects. Moreover, several studies
have reported that marine peptides exhibit various anti-infective activities,
such as antimicrobial, antifungal, antimalarial, antiprotozoal,
anti-tuberculosis, and antiviral activities. In the last several decades, studies
of marine plants, animals, and microbes have revealed tremendous number of
structurally diverse and bioactive secondary metabolites. However, the treatments
available for many infectious diseases caused by bacteria, fungi, and viruses are
limited. Thus, the identification of novel antimicrobial peptides should be
continued, and all possible strategies should be explored. In this review, we
will present the structures and anti-infective activity of peptides isolated from
marine sources (sponges, algae, bacteria, fungi and fish) from 2006 to the
present.

PMCID: PMC4306955
PMID: 25603351  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


715. Mar Drugs. 2015 Jan 16;13(1):529-42. doi: 10.3390/md13010529.

Development of Highly Selective Kv1.3-Blocking Peptides Based on the Sea Anemone 
Peptide ShK.

Pennington MW(1), Chang SC(2), Chauhan S(3), Huq R(4), Tajhya RB(5), Chhabra
S(2), Norton RS(6), Beeton C(7).

Author information: 
(1)Peptides International Inc., 11621 Electron Drive, Louisville, KY 40065, USA. 
mpennington@pepnet.com. (2)Medicinal Chemistry, Monash Institute of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Monash University, Parkville, VIC 3052, Australia.
sandeep.chhabra@monash.edu. (3)Peptides International Inc., 11621 Electron Drive,
Louisville, KY 40065, USA. schauhan@pepnet.com. (4)Department of Molecular
Physiology and Biophysics, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston,
TX 77030, USA. ruhuq@bcm.edu. (5)Department of Molecular Physiology and
Biophysics, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
tajhya@bcm.edu. (6)Medicinal Chemistry, Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Monash University, Parkville, VIC 3052, Australia.
ray.norton@monash.edu. (7)Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics,
Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
beeton@bcm.edu.

ShK, from the sea anemone Stichodactyla helianthus, is a 35-residue
disulfide-rich peptide that blocks the voltage-gated potassium channel Kv1.3 at
ca. 10 pM and the related channel Kv1.1 at ca. 16 pM. We developed an analog of
this peptide, ShK-186, which is currently in Phase 1b-2a clinical trials for the 
treatment of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid
arthritis. While ShK-186 displays a >100-fold improvement in selectivity for
Kv1.3 over Kv1.1 compared with ShK, there is considerable interest in developing 
peptides with an even greater selectivity ratio. In this report, we describe
several variants of ShK that incorporate p-phophono-phenylalanine at the
N-terminus coupled with internal substitutions at Gln16 and Met21. In addition,
we also explored the combinatorial effects of these internal substitutions with
an alanine extension at the C-terminus. Their selectivity was determined by
patch-clamp electrophysiology on Kv1.3 and Kv1.1 channels stably expressed in
mouse fibroblasts. The peptides with an alanine extension blocked Kv1.3 at low pM
concentrations and exhibited up to 2250-fold selectivity for Kv1.3 over Kv1.1.
Analogs that incorporates p-phosphono-phenylalanine at the N-terminus blocked
Kv1.3 with IC50s in the low pM range and did not affect Kv1.1 at concentrations
up to 100 nM, displaying a selectivity enhancement of >10,000-fold for Kv1.3 over
Kv1.1. Other potentially important Kv channels such as Kv1.4 and Kv1.6 were only 
partially blocked at 100 nM concentrations of each of the ShK analogs.

PMCID: PMC4306950
PMID: 25603346  [PubMed - in process]


716. Ophthalmology. 2015 Jan 16. pii: S0161-6420(14)01045-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.10.028. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of Intravitreal Ranibizumab on Retinal Hard Exudate in Diabetic Macular
Edema: Findings from the RIDE and RISE Phase III Clinical Trials.

Domalpally A(1), Ip MS(2), Ehrlich JS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin
Medical School, Madison, Wisconsin. (2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison, Wisconsin. Electronic 
address: msip@wisc.edu. (3)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of monthly intravitreal ranibizumab on hard
exudate (HE) area and the impact of HE on visual acuity (VA) outcomes in diabetic
macular edema (DME) patients using data from 2 phase III clinical trials.
DESIGN: Exploratory analyses of phase III, randomized, double-masked,
sham-controlled, multicenter clinical trials.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults with DME, baseline best-corrected VA 20/40 to 20/320 Snellen
equivalent, and central foveal thickness of ≥275 μm.
METHODS: Between the 2 studies, 759 patients with DME were randomized to receive 
monthly 0.3 or 0.5 mg intravitreal ranibizumab (Lucentis; Genentech, Inc., South 
San Francisco, CA) or sham injections.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Hard exudate area was assessed from color fundus
stereophotographs both on an ordinal scale and using continuous estimates of
areas within the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study grid.
RESULTS: Data from 739 eyes were available for analysis. Mean baseline HE area
was similar across treatment groups, ranging from 0.65 to 0.82 mm(2). Through
month 24, the percentage of eyes without HE increased from 20.9% to 36.3% in the 
sham group and from 22.1% to 61.3% and 23.6% to 62.0% in the ranibizumab 0.3-mg
and 0.5-mg groups, respectively. Resolution of HE became apparent sometime after 
month 6 in ranibizumab-treated eyes. At baseline, there was no meaningful
correlation between VA and presence or absence of HE. After baseline, there also 
was no consistent correlation between presence or absence of HE and change in VA 
over time.
CONCLUSIONS: In this exploratory analysis, monthly intravitreal ranibizumab
resulted in significantly greater reduction of HE area compared with sham (P <
0.0001). In contrast to the rapid effects of ranibizumab on macular edema,
changes in HE area were more gradual. Contrary to prior expectations, the
presence and area of HE did not increase as DME resolved (either in the
ranibizumab or sham groups). Importantly, baseline VA was not correlated with
presence of HE, nor was the therapeutic benefit of ranibizumab on VA affected
negatively by the presence of HE. These data suggest that in the context of
intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor therapy, the presence of HE 
is not a prognostic indicator of poor visual outcomes.

Copyright © 2015 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25601535  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


717. Prog Lipid Res. 2015 Jan 16;58C:14-25. doi: 10.1016/j.plipres.2015.01.001. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Human genetics of HDL: Insight into particle metabolism and function.

Brunham LR(1), Hayden MR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Laboratory in Genetic Medicine, Agency for Science Technology
and Research, Singapore, Singapore; Department of Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School
of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore. Electronic
address: Liam.Brunham@gmail.com. (2)Translational Laboratory in Genetic Medicine,
Agency for Science Technology and Research, Singapore, Singapore; Department of
Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore,
Singapore, Singapore; Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, Child and
Family Research Institute, Department of Medical Genetics, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) are inversely related to
cardiovascular disease risk and HDL particles possess a variety of
anti-atherosclerotic properties. However, several recent clinical trials aimed at
raising HDL-C levels have failed to yield the expected improvement in clinical
outcomes, highlighting the need for a better understanding of HDL particle
function and metabolism. Human genetic studies have proven to be an outstanding
source of insight regarding the biology of this complex lipoprotein class. In
particular, the study of rare genetic disorders of HDL has identified a number of
key players in HDL metabolism, some of which represent current or future
therapeutic targets. More recently, genetic association studies have identified a
large number of additional genes and proteins involved in HDL metabolism. The
purpose of this review is to summarize progress in the study of HDL genetics and 
how these insights have contributed to our understanding of the metabolic
pathways and function of HDL leading to opportunities for the long-elusive
HDL-based therapies.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25601427  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


718. Res Dev Disabil. 2015 Jan 16;39C:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.12.031. [Epub
ahead of print]

Community translation of the Math Interactive Learning Experience Program for
children with FASD.

Kable JA(1), Taddeo E(2), Strickland D(3), Coles CD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, United States; Department of Pediatrics at Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, United States. Electronic address:
jkabl01@emory.edu. (2)Departments of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, United States. (3)Virtual Reality
Aids, Inc., Raleigh, NC, United States. (4)Departments of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, United
States; Department of Pediatrics at Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta,
GA, United States.

The Math Interactive Learning Experience (MILE), a program designed to address
academic and behavioral problems found in children with Fetal Alcohol Spectrum
Disorders (FASD), was found to be effective in a randomized clinical trials with 
results that persisted at a 6-month follow-up. The current study evaluated the
effectiveness of a community translation, in partnership with several community
sites in the metropolitan Atlanta area. A total of 60 participants were randomly 
assigned to one of the three treatment groups: the MILE program administered at a
specialty care center (Center MILE) or in the community (Community MILE), or to
parent math instruction only (Parent Instruction). This study evaluated
instructor satisfaction with the training program, knowledge related to FASD and 
the MILE program, adherence to the MILE teaching methodology, participant math
outcomes, and parents' satisfaction with their treatment experience. Instructors 
reported a high degree of satisfaction with the overall training and mean site
fidelity ratings were positively correlated with change in math performance.
Those in the MILE intervention groups demonstrated more positive gains in math
skills than those in the Parent Instruction group but did not differ from each
other. Parents in the Parent Instruction group reported less satisfaction with
their intervention than those assigned to the Center MILE group but satisfaction 
ratings did not differ between those in the MILE intervention groups. These
results indicate that the community translation and the MILE instructor training 
program developed as part of this process were well-received and effective in
producing positive treatment outcomes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25601483  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


719. Thorax. 2015 Jan 16. pii: thoraxjnl-2014-206354. doi:
10.1136/thoraxjnl-2014-206354. [Epub ahead of print]

Ethics, consent and blinding: lessons from a placebo/sham controlled CPAP
crossover trial.

Djavadkhani Y(1), Marshall NS(2), D'Rozario AL(3), Crawford MR(4), Yee BJ(5),
Grunstein RR(5), Phillips CL(6).

Author information: 
(1)NHMRC Centre for Integrated Research and Understanding of Sleep (CIRUS),
Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia. (2)NHMRC Centre for Integrated Research and Understanding of
Sleep (CIRUS), Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, University of Sydney,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Sydney Nursing School, University of Sydney,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (3)NHMRC Centre for Integrated Research and
Understanding of Sleep (CIRUS), Woolcock Institute of Medical Research,
University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Sydney Local Health
District, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (4)NHMRC Centre for Integrated
Research and Understanding of Sleep (CIRUS), Woolcock Institute of Medical
Research, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Sleep Disorder
Services and Research Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA. (5)NHMRC Centre for Integrated Research and Understanding of Sleep (CIRUS), 
Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia Department of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (6)NHMRC Centre for
Integrated Research and Understanding of Sleep (CIRUS), Woolcock Institute of
Medical Research, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia
Department of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney,
New South Wales, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Performing rigorously designed clinical trials in device-based
treatments is challenging. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the most
effective device-based treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea. We performed a
randomised crossover trial of CPAP versus placebo therapy and did not disclose
the presence of placebo. We assessed rates of staff unblinding, the likelihood of
patient unblinding and obtained patient perceptions on lack of full disclosure.
METHODS: All patients (n=30) underwent a semi-structured exit interview. Prior to
full disclosure patients were asked questions to ascertain whether they suspected
one therapy was ineffective. The use of placebo was then disclosed and additional
questions were administered to indicate the likelihood of unblinding had full
disclosure occurred during consent. Staff unblinding was determined by means of a
questionnaire that was completed after each patient encounter.
RESULTS: While the lack of full disclosure prevented patient unblinding during
the trial, patients revealed a clear preference for active CPAP. After disclosing
the presence of placebo, 73% (n=22) felt they would have been unblinded had they 
known at the start of the trial. Only one patient described unease about the lack
of full disclosure. Staff thought they were unblinded in 6% (n=16/282) of
encounters. They correctly identified the treatment device in 69% of cases
(n=11/16, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Successful patient blinding was achieved, however this was probably 
reliant on the lack of full disclosure. Staff unblinding occurred and highlights 
the difficulty with investigator blinding in device-based trials. Ethical
challenges in this type of study are likely to compromise research feasibility.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: This clinical trial is registered with the Australian 
and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry at http://www.anzctr.org.au (ACTRN
12605000066684).

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25595508  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


720. World J Clin Cases. 2015 Jan 16;3(1):65-76. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v3.i1.65.

Posterior partially edentulous jaws, planning a rehabilitation with dental
implants.

Monteiro DR(1), Silva EV(1), Pellizzer EP(1), Filho OM(1), Goiato MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Douglas R Monteiro, Emily V F Silva, Eduardo P Pellizzer, Osvaldo Magro Filho,
Marcelo C Goiato, Department of Dental Materials and Prosthodontics, Araçatuba
Dental School, Univ Estadual Paulista (UNESP), São Paulo 16015-050, Brazil.

AIM: To discuss important characteristics of the use of dental implants in
posterior quadrants and the rehabilitation planning.
METHODS: An electronic search of English articles was conducted on MEDLINE
(PubMed) from 1990 up to the period of March 2014. The key terms were dental
implants and posterior jaws, dental implants/treatment planning and posterior
maxilla, and dental implants/treatment planning and posterior mandible. No
exclusion criteria were used for the initial search. Clinical trials, randomized 
and non randomized studies, classical and comparative studies, multicenter
studies, in vitro and in vivo studies, case reports, longitudinal studies and
reviews of the literature were included in this review.
RESULTS: One hundred and fifty-two articles met the inclusion criteria of
treatment planning of dental implants in posterior jaw and were read in their
entirety. The selected articles were categorized with respect to their context on
space for restoration, anatomic considerations (bone quantity and density),
radiographic techniques, implant selection (number, position, diameter and
surface), tilted and pterygoid implants, short implants, occlusal considerations,
and success rates of implants placed in the posterior region. The results derived
from the review process were described under several different topic headings to 
give readers a clear overview of the literature. In general, it was observed that
the use of dental implants in posterior region requires a careful treatment plan.
It is important that the practitioner has knowledge about the theme to evaluate
the treatment parameters.
CONCLUSION: The use of implants to restore the posterior arch presents many
challenges and requires a detailed treatment planning.

PMCID: PMC4295221
PMID: 25610852  [PubMed]


721. Biotechnol Adv. 2015 Jan 15. pii: S0734-9750(15)00004-X. doi:
10.1016/j.biotechadv.2015.01.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Polymeric micelles in mucosal drug delivery: Challenges towards clinical
translation.

Sosnik A(1), Menaker Raskin M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Nanomaterials Science, Department of Materials
Science and Engineering, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel. 
Electronic address: alesosnik@gmail.com. (2)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical
Nanomaterials Science, Department of Materials Science and Engineering,
Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.

Polymeric micelles are nanostructures formed by the self-aggregation of
copolymeric amphiphiles above the critical micellar concentration. Due to the
flexibility to tailor different molecular features, they have been exploited to
encapsulate motley poorly-water soluble therapeutic agents. Moreover, the
possibility to combine different amphiphiles in one single aggregate and produce 
mixed micelles that capitalize on the features of the different components
substantially expands the therapeutic potential of these nanocarriers. Despite
their proven versatility, polymeric micelles remain elusive to the market and
only a few products are currently undergoing advanced clinical trials or reached 
clinical application, all of them for the therapy of different types of cancer
and administration by the intravenous route. At the same time, they emerge as a
nanotechnology platform with great potential for non-parenteral mucosal
administration. However, for this, the interaction of polymeric micelles with
mucus needs to be strengthened. The present review describes the different
attempts to develop mucoadhesive polymeric micelles and discusses the challenges 
faced in the near future for a successful bench-to-bedside translation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25597531  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


722. Bull Cancer. 2015 Jan 15. pii: S0007-4551(14)00021-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bulcan.2014.12.013. [Epub ahead of print]

[Communication in the context of phase I clinical trials in oncology:
Implementation and evaluation of training programs.]

[Article in French]

Rouby P(1), Hollebecque A(2), Bahleda R(2), Deutsch E(3), Gomez-Rocca C(2),
Angevin E(2), de La Motte Rouge T(2), Soria JC(2), Dauchy S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Gustave-Roussy, département interdisciplinaire de soins de support
aux patients en oncohématologie, 114, rue Édouard-Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif,
France. Electronic address: pascal.rouby@gustaveroussy.fr. (2)Institut
Gustave-Roussy, département d'innovation thérapeutiques et d'essais précoces,
114, rue Édouard-Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif, France. (3)Institut Gustave-Roussy,
département de radiothérapie, 114, rue Édouard-Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif, France.
(4)Institut Gustave-Roussy, département interdisciplinaire de soins de support
aux patients en oncohématologie, 114, rue Édouard-Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif,
France.

Communication training programs in oncology have demonstrated some efficacy to
improve doctors' communication skills. The goal of our study was to evaluate the 
impact of such training in the particular context of phase I clinical trials.
Self-satisfaction and self-efficacy scales evaluating doctor-patient
communication was completed by 6 medical oncologists (3 juniors and 3 seniors)
before and after their communication training for a total of sixty visits. Two
types of visit have been distinguished: the visits between the oncologist and the
patient alone (a dual situation) and those with a third party (a trilateral
situation). For all the doctors in dual and trialateral situations, self-efficacy
scores improved significantly after training. This improvement was more
pronounced for juniors oncologists in trilateral situations. Before training,
satisfactory scores were worst in duel versus trilateral situations (P=0.01).
This was particularly pronounced for junior compared to senior doctors (P=0.035).
After training, in trilateral situations, the satisfaction scores of junior
doctors matched that of the senior doctors. The communication training programs
appear to benefit junior oncologists to a greater extent in trilateral
situations.

Copyright © 2015 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25609484  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


723. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan 15:0. doi: 10.5301/ejo.5000551. [Epub ahead of print]

Longitudinal modifications of the Ozurdex intravitreal implant as imaged by
SD-OCT.

Barteselli G(1), Dell'Arti L, Pinna V, Ratiglia R, Viola F.

Author information: 
(1)Genentech Inc, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, CA - USA.

PURPOSE: To describe in vivo longitudinal modifications of the Ozurdex
intravitreal implant using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) 
over a 6-month period in an eye treated for retinal vein occlusion (RVO).
METHODS: Case report.
RESULTS: An 82-year-old woman with severe macular edema secondary to branch RVO
received an Ozurdex intravitreal implant in the left eye. At day 1, SD-OCT showed
that the implant was completely filled with highly reflective dexamethasone. At
day 30, complete resolution of macular edema on SD-OCT was noted. At day 60,
macular edema started to relapse; SD-OCT scans over the implant showed highly
reflective borders that appeared irregular and focally retracted, while the
majority of the internal drug had been washed out. At day 180, macular edema
returned to baseline levels; SD-OCT scans over the implant showed that the device
was contracted with almost complete absence of the internal lumen and drug.
CONCLUSIONS: Using SD-OCT, we demonstrated that 60 days postinjection most
dexamethasone had been released from the Ozurdex implant, which showed multiple
irregularities. This was associated with recurrence of macular edema that became 
worse after 180 days, when there was no residual dexamethasone remaining in the
shrunken implant. Low steady levels of the drug in the vitreous and lower
biological activity in the retina after the 2-month high-dose release phase may
explain why a large number of patients lose clinical improvement 60 days
postinjection, as shown by pivotal clinical trials.

PMID: 25612658  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


724. Gastroenterology. 2015 Jan 15. pii: S0016-5085(15)00069-4. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2015.01.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Diet in the Pathogenesis and Treatment of Inflammatory Bowel Diseases.

Lee D, Albenberg L, Compher C, Baldassano R, Piccoli D, Lewis JD, Wu GD.

Some of the most common symptoms of the inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD, which
include ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease) are abdominal pain, diarrhea, and
weight loss. It is therefore not surprising that clinicians and patients have
wondered whether dietary patterns influence the onset or course of IBD. The
question of what to eat is among the most commonly asked by patients and among
the most difficult to answer by clinicians. There are therefore substantial
variations in dietary behaviors of patients and recommendations for them,
although clinicians do not routinely endorse specific diets for patients with
IBD. Dietary clinical trials have been limited by their inability to include a
placebo control, contamination of study groups, and inclusion of patients
receiving medical therapies. Further challenges include accuracy of information
on dietary intake, complex interactions between foods consumed, and differences
in food metabolism among individuals. We review the roles of diet in the etiology
and management of IBD, based on plausible mechanisms and clinical evidence.
Researchers have learned much about the effects of diet on the mucosal immune
system, epithelial function, and the intestinal microbiome; these findings could 
have significant practical implications. Controlled studies of patients receiving
enteral nutrition and observations made from patients on exclusion diets have
shown that components of whole foods can have deleterious effects for patients
with IBD. Additionally, studies in animal models suggested that certain nutrients
can reduce intestinal inflammation. In the future, engineered diets that restrict
deleterious components but supplement beneficial nutrients could be used to
modify the luminal intestinal environment of patients with IBD-these might be
used alone or in combination with immunosuppressive agents, or as salvage therapy
for patients who do not respond or lose responsiveness to medical therapies.
Stricter diets might be required to induce remission, whereas more sustainable
exclusion diets could be used to maintain long-term remission.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25597840  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


725. J Geriatr Phys Ther. 2015 Jan 15. [Epub ahead of print]

Examination of Muscle Strength and Pressure Pain Thresholds in Knee
Osteoarthritis: Test-Retest Reliability and Agreement.

Skou ST(1), Simonsen O, Rasmussen S.

Author information: 
(1)1Orthopaedic Surgery Research Unit, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg,
Denmark. 2Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction, Department of Health Science and 
Technology, Faculty of Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
3Department of Clinical Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE:: Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is associated with reduced
muscle strength and pain sensitization. The purpose of this study was to
determine intrarater reliability and agreement (measurement error) of isometric
knee extensor and flexor muscle strength assessed using handheld dynamometry and 
of pressure pain thresholds (PPT; a measure of pain sensitization) from the knee,
the leg, and the forearm assessed using handheld algometry in knee OA.
METHODS:: A total of 20 subjects with knee OA participated in 2 sessions
separated by 1 week. The highest of 4 examinations and the mean of the 3 highest 
examinations of muscle strength and the first and the mean of 2 PPT examinations 
were applied in the statistical analyses. Intrarater reliability was assessed
using a 2-way random-effects model, consistency-type intraclass correlation
coefficient, whereas agreement was assessed using 95% limits of agreement (LOA)
as a percentage of the mean (LOA%).
RESULTS:: Intraclass correlation coefficients for muscle strength were between
0.78 and 0.91 when using the highest examination and were between 0.86 and 0.94
when using the mean of the 3 highest examinations. Intraclass correlation
coefficients for PPT were between 0.53 and 0.87 when using the first examination 
and were between 0.84 and 0.91 when using the mean of 2 examinations. Agreement
(LOA%) for muscle strength ranged from 38.3% to 47.3% when using the highest
examination and from 40.4% to 53.3% when using the mean of the 3 highest
examinations. Agreement for PPT ranged from 54.2% to 80.6% when using the first
examination and from 50.6% to 58.9% when using the mean of 2 PPT examinations.
DISCUSSION:: A tendency toward improved intraclass correlation coefficients and
LOA% (only for PPTs) was found when using the mean of more than 1 examination for
both muscle strength and PPTs. Intrarater reliability was high to very high,
whereas the LOA/LOA% indicated relatively high measurement errors.
CONCLUSIONS:: Examination of muscle strength and PPTs in knee OA is reliable, but
affected by the measurement error, which is important to consider when reporting 
the results of clinical trials and in clinical practice.

PMID: 25594517  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


726. Lung Cancer. 2015 Jan 15. pii: S0169-5002(15)00042-2. doi:
10.1016/j.lungcan.2015.01.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of clinical outcome of stage I non-small cell lung cancer treated
surgically or with stereotactic radiotherapy: Results from propensity score
analysis.

Mokhles S(1), Verstegen N(2), Maat AP(3), Birim Ö(3), Bogers AJ(3), Mokhles
MM(3), Lagerwaard FJ(2), Senan S(2), Takkenberg JJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Center,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: s.mokhles@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (3)Department of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, Erasmus University Medical
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Guideline-specified curative therapies for a clinical stage I
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are either lobectomy or Stereotactic Ablative 
Radiotherapy (SABR). As outcomes of prospective randomized clinical trials
comparing these modalities are unavailable, we performed a propensity-score
matched analysis to create two similar groups in order to compare clinical
outcomes.
METHODS: We selected 577 patients, 96 VATS or open lobectomy were treated at
Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam and 481 SABR patients were treated at
VU University Medical Center Amsterdam with clinical stage I NSCLC.
RESULTS: Matching of patients according to propensity score resulted in a cohort 
that consisted of 73 patients in the surgery group and of 73 patients in the SABR
group. Median follow-up in the surgery and SABR group was 49 months and 28
months, respectively. Overall survival of patients who underwent surgery was 95% 
and 80% at 12 and 60 months, respectively. For the SABR group this was 94% at 12 
months and 53% at 60 months. No statistical significant difference (p=0.089) in
survival was found between these groups.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study we found no significant differences in overall
survival in propensity matched patients diagnosed with stage I NSCLC treated
either surgically or with SABR. After 3 years there seems to be a trend toward
improved survival in patients who were treated surgically.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25622781  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


727. Ophthalmology. 2015 Jan 15. pii: S0161-6420(14)01078-1. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.11.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Incidence and Long-term Outcomes of the Human Immunodefıciency Virus Neuroretinal
Disorder in Patients with AIDS.

Jabs DA(1), Drye L(2), Van Natta ML(2), Thorne JE(3), Holland GN(4); Ocular
Complications of AIDS Research Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New
York, New York; Department of Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, New York; Department of Epidemiology, Center for Clinical Trials, Johns
Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland.
Electronic address: douglas.jabs@mssm.edu. (2)Department of Epidemiology, Center 
for Clinical Trials, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland. (3)Department of Epidemiology, Center for Clinical Trials,
Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; 
Department of Ophthalmology, Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Jules
Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California,
Los Angeles, California.

PURPOSE: Patients with AIDS have an abnormality of retina/optic nerve function,
manifested as decreased contrast sensitivity (in the absence of ocular
opportunistic infections or media opacity), abnormalities on automated perimetry,
and loss of retinal nerve fiber layer, even among those with good visual acuity, 
termed the "human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) neuroretinal disorder." The
objectives of this study were to determine the prevalence, incidence, risk
factors, and outcomes of HIV neuroretinal disorder.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 1822 patients with AIDS without ocular infections or
media opacities.
METHODS: Patients with HIV neuroretinal disorder were identified by a contrast
sensitivity <1.50 log units in either eye in the absence of ocular opportunistic 
infections or media opacity.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence of HIV neuroretinal disorder, mortality, visual 
impairment (visual acuity ≤20/50), and blindness (≤20/200) on logarithmic visual 
acuity charts.
RESULTS: Sixteen percent of participants had HIV neuroretinal disorder at
enrollment. The estimated cumulative incidence by 20 years after AIDS diagnosis
was 51% (95% confidence interval [CI], 46-55). Human immunodeficiency virus
neuroretinal disorder was more common in women and African Americans. Risk
factors for HIV neuroretinal disorder included hepatitis C infection, low CD4+ T 
cells, and detectable HIV RNA in the blood. Patients with HIV neuroretinal
disorder had a 70% excess mortality versus those without it, even after adjusting
for CD4+ T cells and HIV load (hazard ratio [HR], 1.7; 95% CI, 1.3-2.1; P <
0.0001). Patients with HIV neuroretinal disorder had increased risks of bilateral
visual impairment (HR, 6.5; 95% CI, 2.6-10.6; P < 0.0001) and blindness (HR, 5.9;
95% CI, 2.8-13.7; P = 0.01) versus those without HIV neuroretinal disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: Human immunodeficiency virus neuroretinal disorder is a common
finding among patients with AIDS, and it is associated with an increased
mortality and an increased risk of visual impairment. Successful antiretroviral
therapy decreases but does not eliminate the risk of HIV neuroretinal disorder.

Copyright © 2015 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25600199  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


728. Cancer Treat Rev. 2015 Jan 14. pii: S0305-7372(15)00004-3. doi:
10.1016/j.ctrv.2015.01.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Individualization of tamoxifen therapy: Much more than just CYP2D6 genotyping.

Binkhorst L(1), Mathijssen RH(2), Jager A(2), van Gelder T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Medical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands; Dept of Hospital Pharmacy, Erasmus University Medical Center,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: l.binkhorst@erasmusmc.nl. (2)Dept
of Medical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Dept of Hospital Pharmacy, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands; Dept of Internal Medicine, Erasmus University Medical Center,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Clinical response to tamoxifen varies widely among women treated with this drug
for hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. The principal active metabolite -
endoxifen - is generated through hepatic metabolism of tamoxifen, with key roles 
for cytochrome P450 (CYP) CYP2D6 and CYP3A. By influencing endoxifen formation,
genetic variants of CYP2D6 may affect response to tamoxifen. After a decade of
research, examining the effects of CYP2D6 genetic variants on tamoxifen efficacy,
there is still no agreement on the clinical utility of CYP2D6 genotype as
biomarker for the prediction of breast cancer outcome, because studies revealed
conflicting results. However, tamoxifen metabolism is complex and involves
several other drug-metabolizing enzymes. Genetic variants of other CYP enzymes,
including CYP3A4 and CYP2C9/19, as well as co-medication interfering with the
metabolic activity of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 have been shown to affect endoxifen
concentrations and may also contribute to the variability in response to
tamoxifen. Phenotyping strategies can predict endoxifen exposure more accurately 
than CYP2D6 genotype, but do not take into account all factors influencing
endoxifen exposure. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is likely to be the optimal
strategy for individualization of tamoxifen treatment. According to a growing
amount of literature, endoxifen concentration seems to be a predictor of clinical
outcome. The relationship between endoxifen levels and breast cancer outcomes has
to be replicated and confirmed and the value of TDM should be evaluated in
prospective clinical trials. Caution is advised regarding the concomitant use of 
medications which could interact with tamoxifen, including inhibitors and
inducers of CYP enzymes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25618289  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


729. Curr Med Chem. 2015 Jan 14. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuroprotective Mechanisms of Oxygen and Ethanol: A Potential Combination Therapy
in Stroke.

Parmar S, Moore-Langston S, Fredrickson V, Kim JM, Rastogi R, Elmadoun O, Ding
Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Wayne State University School of Medicine,
550 E Canfield, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. yding@med.wayne.edu.

Currently, stroke researchers are racing to develop neuroprotective strategies
that shield the brain from ischemia-induced injury. To date, neuroprotective
agents that have shown promise in animal studies have failed in clinical trials. 
Since the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke exploits numerous pathways leading
to cellular injury, a combination of neuroprotective agents may offer
substantially better results than a single agent alone - by intervening in
multiple mechanisms. In this paper, we consider an approach using combination
therapy with normobaric oxygen (NBO) and ethanol. Studies indicate that NBO
therapy improves tissue oxygenation, thereby reducing the extent of hypoxic
injury and decelerating the development of tissue necrosis when administered
early after stroke onset. Studies have also demonstrated that low to moderate
levels of ethanol not only decrease the risk of stroke, but also reduce
post-ischemic sequelae. This article reviews the history of NBO and ethanol
therapies, their mechanisms of action, the results of key clinical trials, and
the rationale for their use as a combination therapy in the context of stroke
treatment.

PMID: 25620099  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


730. Curr Med Chem. 2015 Jan 14. [Epub ahead of print]

Tubulin Colchicine Binding Site Inhibitors as Vascular Disrupting Agents in
Clinical Developments.

Ji YT, Liu YN, Liu ZP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medicinal Chemistry, Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology (Ministry
of Education), School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shandong University, Jinan
250012, P. R. China. liuzhaop@sdu.edu.cn.

Tumor vasculature is an important target in cancer treatment. Two distinct
vascular-targeting therapeutic strategies are applied to attack cancer cells
indirectly. The antiangiogenic approach intervenes in the neovascularization
processes and blocks the formation of new blood vessels, while the antivascular
approach targets the established tumor blood vessels, making vascular shutdown
and resulting in rapid haemorrhagic necrosis and tumor cell death. A number of
compounds with diverse structural scaffolds have been designed to target tumor
vasculature and they are called vascular disrupting agents (VDAs). The biological
or ligand-directed VDAs utilize antibodies, peptides or growth factors to deliver
toxins or pro-coagulants or proapoptotic affectors to tumor-related blood
vessels, while the small-molecule VDAs selectively target tumor blood vessels and
have little effects on the normal endothelium. Among the small-molecule VDAs, the
tubulin colchicine binding site inhibitors have been extensively studied and many
of them entered the clinical trials, including CA-4P, CA-1P, AVE8062, OXi4503,
CKD-516, BNC105P, ABT-751, CYT-997, ZD6126, NPI-2358, MN-029 and EPC2407. This
review makes a summary of the small-molecule VDAs in clinical developments and
highlights some potential VDA leads or candidates for the treatment of tumors.

PMID: 25620094  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


731. Curr Top Med Chem. 2015 Jan 14. [Epub ahead of print]

Lipoic Acid: its Antioxidant and Anti-Inflammatory Role and Clinical
Applications.

Moura FA, de Andrade KQ, Dos Santos JC, Goulart MO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química e Biotecnologia (IQB), Universidade Federal de Alagoas
(UFAL), Campus A. C. Simões, Avenida Lourival Melo Mota, s/n, Tabuleiro dos
Martins, 57072-970 Maceió, AL, Brazil. mariliaofg@gmail.com.

Lipoic acid (LA) is an antioxidant able to produce its effects in aqueous or
lipophilic environments. Lipoate is the conjugate base of lipoic acid, and the
most prevalent form of LA under physiological conditions. It presents a highly
negative reduction potential, increases the expression of antioxidant enzymes and
participates in the recycling of vitamins C and E. Due to these properties, LA is
called the "universal antioxidant". LA is also involved with anti-inflammatory
action, independently of its antioxidant activity. This review was carried out,
aiming to identify, analyze, and rationalize the various clinical,
physiopathological and/or physiological situations in which LA, through oral
supplementation, was tested on human and animal (rats and mice) models. LA was
mainly tested in cardiovascular diseases (CVD), obesity, pain, inflammatory
diseases and aging. LA uses in CVD and obesity, in humans, are controversial. On 
the other hand, beneficial effects on inflammation and pain were observed. LA
supplementation in animal models may prolong life, has neuroprotective effects
and presents positive effects against cancer. Differences observed in human and
animal models can be due, in part, to different treatments (LA combined with
other antioxidants, different doses) and to the variety of biomarkers
investigated in animal experiments. These results suggest the need for further
clinical trials to guide health professionals regarding the safety of
prescription of this supplement.

PMID: 25620240  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


732. Depress Anxiety. 2015 Jan 14. doi: 10.1002/da.22327. [Epub ahead of print]

COGNITIVE BEHAVIORAL THERAPY FOR HOARDING DISORDER: A META-ANALYSIS.

Tolin DF(1), Frost RO, Steketee G, Muroff J.

Author information: 
(1)Anxiety Disorders Center, Institute of Living, Hartford, Connecticut;
Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut.

BACKGROUND: Hoarding disorder (HD) is a new diagnosis in DSM-5 (American
Psychiatric Association, 2013). Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) appears
promising for the treatment of HD, and has been tested in both individual and
group settings.
METHODS: The present study used meta-analytic techniques to examine the overall
strength of effect of CBT on HD, as well as on its component symptoms (clutter,
difficulty discarding, and acquiring) and associated functional impairment.
Potential demographic and treatment-related moderators of CBT response, as well
as the presence of clinically significant change were also examined. From 114
published articles, 10 articles comprising 12 distinct HD samples (N = 232) met
inclusion criteria and were retained for analysis.
RESULTS: HD symptom severity decreased significantly across studies with a large 
effect size. The strongest effects were seen for difficulty discarding, followed 
by clutter and acquiring. Functional impairment showed the smallest effect in the
moderate range. Female gender, younger age, a greater number of CBT sessions, and
a greater number of home visits were associated with better clinical outcomes.
Reliable change was found in the majority of samples for each outcome domain.
Rates of clinically significant change, however, were lower (percentage ranged
from 24 to 43). Thus, in most cases, study patients' post-treatment scores
remained closer to the HD range than to the normal range.
CONCLUSIONS: CBT is a promising treatment for HD, although there is significant
room for improvement. Results are discussed in terms of treatment refinement for 
HD, and additional moderator variables are suggested for further study.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25639467  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


733. Lung Cancer. 2015 Jan 14. pii: S0169-5002(14)00513-3. doi:
10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.12.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Concurrent pemetrexed and radiation therapy in the treatment of patients with
inoperable stage III non-small cell lung cancer: A systematic review of completed
and ongoing studies.

Choy H(1), Gerber DE(2), Bradley JD(3), Iyengar P(2), Monberg M(4), Treat J(4),
Govindan R(3), Koustensis A(4), Barker S(4), Obasaju C(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA. Electronic
address: Hak.Choy@utsouthwestern.edu. (2)University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, TX, USA. (3)Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA. (4)Eli Lilly and Company or one of its subsidiaries, Indianapolis, IN,
USA.

Current standard for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is
combined concurrent therapy with a platinum-based regimen. Preclinical
synergistic activity of pemetrexed with radiation therapy (RT) and favorable
toxicity profile has led to clinical trials evaluating pemetrexed in
chemoradiation regimens. This literature search of concurrent pemetrexed and RT
treatment of patients with stage III NSCLC included MEDLINE database, meeting
abstracts, and the clinical trial registry database. Nineteen unique studies were
represented across all databases including 11 phase I studies and eight phase II 
studies. Of the six phase II trials with mature data available, median overall
survival ranged from 18.7 to 34 months. Esophagitis and pneumonitis occurred in
0-16% and 0-23% of patients, respectively. Of the ongoing trials, there is one
phase III and four phase II trials with pemetrexed in locally advanced NSCLC.
Pemetrexed can be administered safely at full systemic doses with either
cisplatin or carboplatin concomitantly with radical doses of thoracic radiation
therapy. While results from the ongoing phase III PROCLAIM trial are needed to
address definitively the efficacy of pemetrexed-cisplatin plus RT in stage III
NSCLC, available results from phase II trials suggest that this regimen has
promising activity with an acceptable toxicity profile.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25650301  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


734. Neuropharmacology. 2015 Jan 14. pii: S0028-3908(15)00011-8. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2015.01.004. [Epub ahead of print]

A newly designed molecule J2326 for Alzheimer's disease disaggregates amyloid
fibrils and induces neurite outgrowth.

Chang PT(1), Talekar RS(2), Kung FL(2), Chern TR(3), Huang CW(2), Ye QQ(1), Yang 
MY(1), Yu CW(1), Lai SY(1), Deore RR(2), Lin JH(4), Chen CS(5), Chen GS(6), Chern
JW(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, National Taiwan University, No. 33, Lin-Sen South Road,
Taipei, 10051, Taiwan, ROC; Center for Innovative Therapeutics Discovery,
National Taiwan University, No. 33, Lin-Ssen South Road, Taipei, 10051, Taiwan,
ROC. (2)School of Pharmacy, National Taiwan University, No. 33, Lin-Sen South
Road, Taipei, 10051, Taiwan, ROC. (3)Division of Mechanics, Research Center for
Applied Sciences, Academia Sinica, No. 128, Section 2, Academia Road, Taipei,
11529, Taiwan, ROC. (4)School of Pharmacy, National Taiwan University, No. 33,
Lin-Sen South Road, Taipei, 10051, Taiwan, ROC; Division of Mechanics, Research
Center for Applied Sciences, Academia Sinica, No. 128, Section 2, Academia Road, 
Taipei, 11529, Taiwan, ROC; Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica,
No. 128, Section 2, Academia Road, Taipei, 11529, Taiwan, ROC. (5)School of
Pharmacy, China Medical University, No. 91, Hsueh-Shih Road, Taichung, 40402,
Taiwan, ROC. (6)Department of Applied Chemistry, Providence University, No. 200, 
Section 7, Taiwan Boulevard, Taichung, 43301, Taiwan, ROC. (7)School of Pharmacy,
National Taiwan University, No. 33, Lin-Sen South Road, Taipei, 10051, Taiwan,
ROC; Center for Innovative Therapeutics Discovery, National Taiwan University,
No. 33, Lin-Ssen South Road, Taipei, 10051, Taiwan, ROC; Department of Life
Science, National Taiwan University, No. 1, Section 4, Roosevelt Road, Taipei,
10617, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address: jwchern@ntu.edu.tw.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by deposition
of β-amyloid (Aβ) fibrils accompanied with progressive neurite loss. None of the 
clinically approved anti-Alzheimer's agents target both pathological processes.
We hypothesized that conjugation of a metal chelator to destabilize Aβ fibrils
(fAβs) and a long-chain fatty alcohol to induce neurite outgrowth may generate a 
novel molecular scaffold that targets both pathologies. The hydroxyalkylquinoline
J2326 was designed and synthesized by joining an 11-carbon alcohol to
5-chloro-8-methoxyquinoline at the 2-position and its anti-neurodegenerative
potentials in vitro and in vivo were characterized. It attenuated fAβ formation
and disaggregated the existing fAβ zinc-dependently as well as
zinc-independently. It also triggered extracellular signal-regulated
kinase-dependent neurite outgrowth and increased synaptic activity in neuronal
cells. In fAβ-driven neurodegeneration in vitro, J2326 reversed neurite collapse 
and neurotoxicity. These roles of J2326 were also demonstrated in vivo and were
pivotal to the observed improvement in memory of mice with hippocampal fAβ
lesions. These results show that the effectiveness of J2326 on fAβ-driven
neurodegeneration is ascribed to its novel scaffold. This might give clues to
evolving attractive therapy for future clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25596491  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


735. Redox Biol. 2015 Jan 14;4C:289-295. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2015.01.009. [Epub ahead
of print]

Border between natural product and drug: Comparison of the related benzoquinones 
idebenone and coenzyme Q10.

Gueven N(1), Woolley K(2), Smith J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacy, School of Medicine, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia.
Electronic address: nguven@utas.edu.au. (2)School of Chemistry, University of
Tasmania, Hobart, Australia.

Coenzyme Q10 is a ubiquitous component of cellular membranes and belongs to the
class of benzoquinones that mainly differ with regards to the length and
composition of their hydrophobic tail. The characteristic quinone group can
accept electrons from various biological sources and is converted by a one
electron transfer to the unstable semiquinone or by a two electron transfer to
the more stable hydroquinone. This feature makes CoQ10 the bona fide cellular
electron transfer molecule within the mitochondrial respiratory chain and also
makes it a potent cellular antioxidant. These activities serve as justification
for its popular use as food supplement. Another quinone with similarities to the 
naturally occurring CoQ10 is idebenone, which shares its quinone moiety with
CoQ10, but at the same time differs from CoQ10 by the presence of a much shorter,
less lipophilic tail. However, despite its similarity to CoQ10, idebenone cannot 
be isolated from any natural sources but instead was synthesized and selected as 
a pharmacologically active compound in the 1980s by Takeda Pharmaceuticals purely
based on its pharmacological properties. Several recent clinical trials
demonstrated some therapeutic efficacy of idebenone in different indications and 
as a consequence, many practitioners question if the freely available CoQ10 could
not be used instead. Here, we describe the molecular and pharmacological features
of both molecules that arise from their structural differences to answer the
question if idebenone is merely a CoQ10 analogue as frequently perpetuated in the
literature or a pharmaceutical drug with entirely different features.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25625583  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


736. Transplant Rev (Orlando). 2015 Jan 14. pii: S0955-470X(15)00004-X. doi:
10.1016/j.trre.2015.01.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Circulating biomarkers of tolerance.

Girmanova E(1), Hruba P(1), Viklicky O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Transplant Laboratory, Transplant Center, Institute for Clinical and
Experimental Medicine, Prague, Czech Republic. (2)Department of Nephrology,
Transplant Laboratory, Transplant Center, Institute for Clinical and Experimental
Medicine, Prague, Czech Republic. Electronic address: ondrej.viklicky@medicon.cz.

On the basis of reviewed literature here we describe models of tolerance and
summarize the evidence of circulating biomarkers suitable for the assessment of
immunological risk in organ transplantation. We focused on results of evaluation 
of specific peripheral immune cell populations and transcripts in peripheral
blood of operationally tolerant liver and kidney transplant recipients.
Validation of described markers to define potentially tolerant patients before
their use in clinical trials is critical.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 25636718  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


737. Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2015 Jan 14. pii: S0165-6147(14)00189-8. doi:
10.1016/j.tips.2014.10.012. [Epub ahead of print]

Improving transparency of clinical trials.

Dal-Ré R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research, BUC (Biosciences UAM+CSIC) Program, International Campus of
Excellence, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
Rafael.dalre@fuam.uam.es.

Recent data reveal that subtle selective publication affects critical aspects of 
trial reporting, in some cases altering the interpretation of results. Timely
prospective registration could help deter selective reporting and clinical trial 
stakeholders from government authorities to journal editors should work together 
to foster prospective registration of trials.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596802  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


738. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2015 Jan 13. pii: S0003-9993(15)00009-X. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2015.01.005. [Epub ahead of print]

The effect of exercise on depressive symptoms in adults with neurological
disorders: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Adamson BC(1), Ensari I(2), Motl RW(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Department of Kinesiology and
Community Health, Urbana, IL. Electronic address: bcadams2@illinois.edu.
(2)University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Department of Kinesiology and
Community Health, Urbana, IL.

OBJECTIVE: To review and quantify the effect of exercise on depression in adults 
with neurological disorders. We searched CINAHL, the Cochrane Register of
Controlled Clinical Trials, EMBASE, ERIC, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, PubMed, and
SPORTDiscus with the last search performed in May 2014.
STUDY SELECTION: We included randomized controlled trials conducted in adults
diagnosed with a neurological disorder. We included studies which compared an
exercise intervention group with a control group and used depression as an
outcome measure.
DATA EXTRACTION: Depression data were extracted independently by 2 authors.
Methodological quality was assessed independently by 2 authors.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Forty-three full-length articles were reviewed and 26 trials met 
our inclusion criteria. These trials represented 1,324 participants with 7
different neurological disorders; Alzheimer's disease (n=4), migraine (n=1),
multiple sclerosis (n=13), Parkinson's disease (n=2), spinal cord injury (n=1),
stroke (n=2) and traumatic brain injury (n=3). Depression measure data were
extracted and effect sizes were computed for 23 trials. Results from a
meta-analysis yielded an overall effect size of 0.28 (SE=0.07, CI=0.15-0.41,
p=0.00) favoring a reduction in depression outcomes following an exercise
intervention compared with control. Of note, interventions which met physical
activity guidelines yielded an overall effect of 0.38 compared with 0.19 for
studies which did not meet physical activity guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS: This review provides evidence that exercise, particularly when
meeting physical activity guidelines, can improve depressive symptoms in adults
with neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2015 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596001  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


739. Clin Nutr. 2015 Jan 13. pii: S0261-5614(15)00009-6. doi:
10.1016/j.clnu.2015.01.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of the novel functional fibre, polyglycoplex (PGX), on body weight and
metabolic parameters: A systematic review of randomized clinical trials.

Onakpoya IJ(1), Heneghan CJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Oxford, Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine, Nuffield Department 
of Primary Care Health Sciences, New Radcliffe Houses, Radcliffe Observatory
Quarter, Oxford, UK. Electronic address: igho.onakpoya@phc.ox.ac.uk.
(2)University of Oxford, Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine, Nuffield Department 
of Primary Care Health Sciences, New Radcliffe Houses, Radcliffe Observatory
Quarter, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Hundreds of dietary supplements are marketed as weight loss
pills, but the evidence for effectiveness for most is unproven. The objective of 
this review was to critically appraise and evaluate the evidence from published
randomized clinical trials (RCTs) examining the effectiveness of polyglycoplex
(PGX), a novel functional fibre, on body weight and metabolic parameters.
METHODS: We conducted electronic searches in Medline, Embase, Amed, Cinahl and
The Cochrane Library. Only double-blinded RCTs were considered for inclusion. The
reporting quality of included studies was assessed using the Cochrane criteria.
Two reviewers independently determined eligibility, assessed the quality of
reporting, and extracted the data.
RESULTS: We included four RCTs with a total of 217 participants. The RCTs varied 
in the quality of their reporting. The evidence from the RCTs suggested that PGX 
has no significant effects on body weight; however, significant reductions were
noted for total and LDL cholesterol. Adverse events reported included diarrhea
and abdominal bloating.
CONCLUSION: The evidence from available RCTs does not indicate that PGX intake
causes reductions in body weight. PGX may cause reductions in total and LDL
cholesterol. Few trials examining the effects of PGX have been conducted; they
are characterized by small sample sizes, deficiencies in reporting quality, and
are funded by a single manufacturer. Future clinical trials evaluating its effect
should be adequately powered and better reported.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25616600  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


740. Curr Rheumatol Rev. 2015 Jan 13. [Epub ahead of print]

Treat to Target for Osteoporosis: Another step forward.

El Miedany Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt Consultant Rheumatologist, England, UK..
drelmiedany@rheumatology4u.com.

Monitoring treatment effects can inform both the physician and patient whether
the medication has achieved its anticipated targets. There are several variances 
between patients cohorts included in clinical trials and subjects managed in
standard clinical setting. Therefore, defining a patient as a "responder" or
"non-responder" to management might not be applicable in day to day care, in
particular in patients suffering from chronic diseases. So far, in patients
receiving treatment for osteoporosis, there is no clear guidance on when the
fracture risk has been reduced to an acceptable low level. As a consequence, some
patients at low risk for fracture may have continued their treatment for longer
periods than necessary, whereas others at high risk for fracture may have their
treatment stopped whilst the continuation of the same medication or a change to a
more potent therapy might be of value. In many specialties, goal-directed
treating to target is already the standard and the time has come for
goal-directed management of osteoporosis. Adopting treat-to-target approach in
osteoporosis has the prospective of developing the patients' care, plummeting the
osteoporotic fractures burden, in addition to having a positive
cost-effectiveness impact. This article aims at discussing the potential utility 
of "treat-to-target" approach for osteoporotic patients management in standard
clinical practice. It also includes a suggested algorithm for long term
osteoporosis treatment as well as post-drug holiday management based on "treat to
target" strategy.

PMID: 25599682  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


741. J Minim Invasive Gynecol. 2015 Jan 13. pii: S1553-4650(15)00011-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jmig.2015.01.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Robotic Single-Site Technique Allows Pelvic Lymphadenectomy in Surgical Staging
of Endometrial Cancer.

Bogliolo S(1), Musacchi V(2), Cassani C(2), Babilonti L(2), Gardella B(2),
Spinillo A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, IRCCS-Fondazione Policlinico San
Matteo and University of Pavia, 19 Viale Camillo Golgi, 27100 Pavia, Italy.
Electronic address: s.bogliolo@smatteo.pv.it. (2)Department of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, IRCCS-Fondazione Policlinico San Matteo and University of Pavia, 19 
Viale Camillo Golgi, 27100 Pavia, Italy.

Several experiences described successful robotic single site surgical approach
for the treatment of benign gynecological diseases and gynecological malignancy. 
However, the initial limited choice of instruments respect to standard robotic
procedures may limit the indication to robotic single site approach in
comprehensive surgical staging of gynecological cancer patients. The recent
commercialization of bipolar forceps dedicated to single site robotic procedures 
allowed to overcome these limitations. Our experience showed that comprehensive
robotic single site surgical staging in endometrial cancer patients is feasible, 
without surgical complications. Indeed, in selected patients the use of robotic
bipolar forceps appears useful and safe. The improvement in technology by robotic
industry and future clinical trials can extend the indications for single site
surgery in gynecology.

Copyright © 2015 AAGL. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596172  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


742. Skin Res Technol. 2015 Jan 13. doi: 10.1111/srt.12207. [Epub ahead of print]

Body hair counts during hair length reduction procedures: a comparative study
between Computer Assisted Image Analysis after Manual Processing (CAIAMP) and
Trichoscan(™)

Van Neste DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Skinterface, Tournai, Belgium; Brussels' Hair Clinic, Brussels, Belgium.

PURPOSE: To compare two measurement methods for body hair.
METHODS: Calibration of computer assisted image analysis after manual processing 
(CAIAMP) showed variation <4% for thickness and <2.3% for densities. Images from 
6 body sites with 'good natural contrast between hair and skin' were taken before
hair dye, after hair dye or after hair length reduction without hair extraction
or destruction. Data in the same targets were compared with Trichoscan(™) quoted 
for 'unambiguous evaluation of the hair growth after shaving'.
RESULTS: CAIAMP detected a total of 337 hair and showed no statistically
significant differences with the three procedures confirming 'good natural
contrast between hair and skin' and that reduction methods did not affect hair
counts. While CAIAMP found a mean number of 19 thick hair (≥30 μm) before dye, 18
after dye and 20 after hair reduction, Trichoscan(™) found in the same sites
respectively 44, 73 and 61. Trichoscan(™) generated counts differed statistically
significantly from CAIAMP-data. Automated analyses were considered
un-specifically influenced by hair medulla and natural or artificial skin
background.
CONCLUSION: Quality control including all steps of human intervention and
measurement technology are mandatory for body hair measurements during
experimental or clinical trials on body hair grooming, shaving or removal.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25639154  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


743. Maturitas. 2015 Jan 12. pii: S0378-5122(14)00405-8. doi:
10.1016/j.maturitas.2014.12.015. [Epub ahead of print]

Waist-to-hip ratio is better at predicting subclinical atherosclerosis than body 
mass index and waist circumference in postmenopausal women.

Lee HJ(1), Hwang SY(2), Hong HC(1), Ryu JY(1), Seo JA(1), Kim SG(1), Kim NH(1),
Choi DS(1), Baik SH(1), Choi KM(1), Yoo HJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine,
College of Medicine, Korea University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of
Biostatistics, College of Medicine, Korea University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine,
College of Medicine, Korea University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: deisy21@naver.com.

OBJECTIVE: Body fat distribution becomes more central after menopause. Although
some studies have identified the superiority of various anthropometric indices to
assess general health outcomes, very limited studies have compared the efficacy
of body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), and waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) 
to predict subclinical atherosclerosis according to menopausal status.
METHODS: In total, 442 participants (209 premenopausal women and 233
postmenopausal women) were prospectively enrolled from the Health Promotion
Center of Korea University Guro Hospital. We examined subclinical atherosclerosis
using carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) and brachial-ankle pulse wave
velocity (baPWV).
RESULTS: In premenopausal women, all anthropometric parameters such as BMI, WC
and WHR were positively correlated with baPWV and CIMT values, whereas in
postmenopausal women, only WHR was positively correlated with baPWV values (0.27,
P<0.01), and WC and WHR were positively correlated with CIMT (0.15, P<0.05 and
0.21, P<0.01, respectively). By receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve
analyses, WHR was superior to the other anthropometric indices to predict carotid
atherosclerosis in postmenopausal women. Furthermore, the normal weight
(BMI<23kg/m(2)) with higher WHR group had a significantly thicker CIMT when
compared to the normal weight with lower WHR group (0.76mm vs. 0.68mm, P<0.01)
and even the overweight subjects with BMI≥23kg/m(2) (0.76mm vs. 0.70mm, P<0.01)
in postmenopausal women.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study shows that WHR has the best potential for
predicting subclinical atherosclerosis compared to BMI and WC in postmenopausal
women.
CLINICAL TRIALS NUMBER: NCT01594710.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25631349  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


744. Cancer Treat Rev. 2015 Jan 10. pii: S0305-7372(15)00002-X. doi:
10.1016/j.ctrv.2014.12.014. [Epub ahead of print]

Assessing treatment effects in older breast cancer patients: Systematic review of
observational research methods.

de Glas NA(1), Kiderlen M(1), de Craen AJ(2), Hamaker ME(3), Portielje JE(4), van
de Velde CJ(5), Liefers GJ(5), Bastiaannet E(6).

Author information: 
(1)Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Leiden, The
Netherlands; Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Geriatrics &
Gerontology, Leiden, The Netherlands. (2)Leiden University Medical Center,
Department of Geriatrics & Gerontology, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Diakonessenhuis, Department of Clinical Geriatrics, Zeist, The Netherlands.
(4)Haga Hospital, Department of Medical Oncology, Den Haag, The Netherlands.
(5)Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Leiden, The
Netherlands. (6)Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Leiden, 
The Netherlands; Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Geriatrics &
Gerontology, Leiden, The Netherlands. Electronic address: e.bastiaannet@lumc.nl.

Solid evidence of treatment effects in older women with breast cancer is lacking,
as they are generally underrepresented in randomized clinical trials on which
guideline recommendations are based. An alternative way to study treatment
effects in older patients could be to use data from observational studies.
However, using appropriate methods in analyzing observational data is a key
condition in order to draw valid conclusions, as directly comparing treatments
generally results in biased estimates due to confounding by indication. The aim
of this systematic review was to investigate the methods that have been used in
observational studies that assessed the effects of breast cancer treatment on
survival, breast cancer survival and recurrence in older patients (aged 65years
and older). Studies were identified through systematic review of the literature
published between January 1st 2009 and December 13th 2013 in the PubMed database 
and EMBASe. Finally, 31 studies fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Of these, 22
studies directly compared two treatments. Fifteen out of these 22 studies
addressed the problem of confounding by indication, while seven studies did not. 
Nine studies used some form of instrumental variable analysis. In conclusion, the
vast majority of observational studies that investigate treatment effects in
older breast cancer patients compared treatments directly. These studies are
therefore likely to be biased. Observational research will be essential to
improve treatment and outcome of older breast cancer patients, but the use of
accurate methods is essential to draw valid conclusions from this type of data.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25604065  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


745. Clin Colorectal Cancer. 2015 Jan 9. pii: S1533-0028(15)00003-1. doi:
10.1016/j.clcc.2014.12.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Role of First-Line Anti-Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Therapy Compared With
Anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Therapy in Advanced Colorectal Cancer: A 
Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials.

Khattak MA(1), Martin H(2), Davidson A(2), Phillips M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Western Australia; University of Western
Australia, Crawley, Western Australia. Electronic address:
adnan.khattak@health.wa.gov.au. (2)Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Western
Australia; University of Western Australia, Crawley, Western Australia.
(3)University of Western Australia, Crawley, Western Australia.

BACKGROUND: Monoclonal antibodies targeting epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) or vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) have demonstrated efficacy in
combination with chemotherapy in the first-line therapy of advanced colorectal
cancer (CRC). Data from randomized studies comparing these monoclonal antibodies 
as initial therapy is conflicting, and their comparative efficacy remains
unclear. We aimed to evaluate the impact of these targeted therapies on patient
outcomes by combining the data from randomized clinical trials.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: MEDLINE, PubMed, EMBASE, and meeting proceedings within
the past 12 months were searched to identify relevant studies. All randomized
phase II/III clinical trials of advanced CRC comparing an anti-EGFR therapy with 
an anti-VEGF agent in the first-line setting were included. Data were extracted
on sample size, objective response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS),
and overall survival (OS).
RESULTS: Three randomized studies comprising 2014 participants were included in
the meta-analysis. For patients with KRAS wild type (KRAS-WT) CRC, the ORR was
superior in patients who received first-line anti-EGFR therapy compared with
those who received anti-VEGF therapy (odds ratio [OR], 1.31; 95% confidence
interval [CI], 1.09-1.58; P = .004). This effect was even stronger for all RAS-WT
patients (OR, 1.46; 95% CI, 1.13-1.90; P = .004). There was no difference in PFS 
overall irrespective of the KRAS-WT (HR, 1.03; 95% CI, 0.93-1.13; P = .61) or all
RAS-WT (HR, 0.92; 95% CI, 0.71-1.18; P = .50) status. The OS was significantly
longer in the patients who received first-line anti-EGFR therapy compared with
those who received anti-VEGF therapy (KRAS-WT: HR, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.65-0.97; P =
.026; all RAS-WT: HR, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.63-0.95; P = .016).
CONCLUSION: The results of our research show superior ORR and OS with first-line 
anti-EGFR therapy compared with anti-VEGF therapy in both KRAS-WT and all RAS-WT 
patients with advanced CRC. These results suggest that anti-EGFR monoclonal
antibodies may be a real alternative to anti-VEGF therapy as initial treatment of
advanced CRC.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25666296  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


746. J Pineal Res. 2015 Jan 9. doi: 10.1111/jpi.12205. [Epub ahead of print]

Melatonin sensitizes human breast cancer cells to ionizing radiation by
down-regulating proteins involved in double-strand DNA break repair.

Alonso-González C(1), González A, Martínez-Campa C, Gómez-Arozamena J, Cos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of
Cantabria and Instituto de Investigación Valdecilla (IDIVAL).

Radiation and adjuvant endocrine therapy are nowadays considered a standard
treatment option after surgery in breast cancer. Melatonin exerts oncostatic
actions on human breast cancer cells. In the current study we investigated the
effects of a combination of radiotherapy and melatonin on human breast cancer
cells. Melatonin (1 mM, 10 μM and 1 nM) significantly inhibited the proliferation
of MCF-7 cells. Radiation alone inhibited the MCF-7 cell proliferation in a
dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment of breast cancer cells with melatonin one
week before radiation led to a significantly greater decrease of MCF-7 cell
proliferation compared with radiation alone. Melatonin pretreatment before
radiation also decreased G2 -M phase arrest compared with irradiation alone, with
a higher percentage of cells in the G0 -G1 phase and a lower percentage of cells 
in S phase. Radiation alone diminished RAD51 and DNA-PKcs mRNA expression, two
main proteins involved in double-strand DNA break repair. Treatment with
melatonin for 7 days before radiation led to a significantly greater decrease in 
RAD51 and DNA-PKcs mRNA expression compared with radiation alone. Our findings
suggest that melatonin pretreatment before radiation sensitizes breast cancer
cells to the ionizing effects of radiation by decreasing cell proliferation,
inducing cell cycle arrest and down-regulating proteins involved in double-strand
DNA break repair. These findings may have implications for designing clinical
trials using melatonin and radiotherapy. This article is protected by copyright. 
All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25623566  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


747. Med Hypotheses. 2015 Jan 9. pii: S0306-9877(15)00004-3. doi:
10.1016/j.mehy.2014.12.021. [Epub ahead of print]

Beneficial effects of cellular autofluorescence following ionization radiation:
Hypothetical approaches for radiation protection and enhancing radiotherapy
effectiveness.

Abdollahi H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physics, School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: hamid_rbp@yahoo.com.

Ionization radiation (IR) is a main part of modern technologies with a
double-edge sword manner. Finding the most feasible therapies to reduce adverse
effects of IR and also enhancing radiotherapy effectiveness is a debating issue
that has been challenged and studied for years. The main aim of the present
hypothetical research was to theorize and suggest a new biological radiation
protection approach and also increasing radiotherapy outcomes based on cellular
autofluorescence following IR. In this hypothesis, we suggested that this
cellular autofluorescence can activate some synthetic drugs called
photo-activated agents that are injected in human body after radiation exposures 
scenarios. Photo activated agents can activate biological pathways such as DNA
repair and immunostimulation pathways, bystander signals blocking, and so survive
cells and tissues. In the other hand, light emitted by cellular response to
radiation can be used as like as photodynamic therapy and therefore more cancer
cells killing via apoptosis and necrosis. These ideas can be performed in future 
using more animal and in vivo/in vitro studies and clinical trials. In
conclusion, cellular autofluorescence after radiation exposure can be used as a
source for activation specific drugs for radiation protection and also radiation 
therapy effectiveness. These hypothetical therapeutic approaches can be served as
personalized therapy based on individual radiosensitivity.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25613566  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


748. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2015 Jan 9. pii: S1526-0542(15)00003-2. doi:
10.1016/j.prrv.2014.11.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Principal findings of systematic reviews for the management of acute
bronchiolitis in children.

Castro-Rodriguez JA(1), Rodriguez-Martinez CE(2), Sossa-Briceño MP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pediatrics and Family Medicine, School of Medicine, Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile. Electronic address:
jacastro17@hotmail.com. (2)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine,
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogota, Colombia; Department of Pediatric
Pulmonology and Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, School of Medicine, Universidad
El Bosque, Bogota, Colombia; Research Unit, Military Hospital of Colombia,
Bogota, Colombia. (3)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine,
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogota, Colombia.

Bronchiolitis is the most common cause of hospitalization among infants during
the first 12 months of life, with high direct and indirect cost for health system
and families. Different treatment approaches co-exist worldwide resulting in many
drugs prescribed, without any proven benefit. Twenty systematic reviews of
randomized clinical trials (SRCTs) on management of acute bronchiolitis in
children were retrieved through 5 databases and their methodological quality was 
determined using an AMSTAR tool. Epinephrine showed impact only in short-term
outcomes among outpatients (reduced admission at day 1 and improved the clinical 
score in the first 2hours, compared to placebo) and inpatients (decreased length 
of stay (LOS) and improved saturation only in the first 2hours, compared to
nebulized salbutamol, but with high heterogeneity). Nebulized 3% saline among
inpatients (but not in the emergency department setting) decreased hospital LOS. 
In small trials, exogenous surfactant among children may decrease the duration of
mechanical ventilation and intensive care unit LOS and had favorable effects on
oxygenation and CO2 elimination at 24hrs. Although several SRCTs are currently
available, only few treatments show clinically important improvements. Therefore,
it is still difficult to prepare a well-established and accepted guideline for
the treatment of acute bronchiolitis.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25636596  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


749. Psychiatry Res. 2015 Jan 8. pii: S0165-1781(15)00003-7. doi:
10.1016/j.psychres.2014.12.043. [Epub ahead of print]

Assessing cognitive impairment using PROMIS(®) applied cognition-abilities scales
in a medical outpatient sample.

Saffer BY(1), Lanting SC(2), Koehle MS(3), Klonsky ED(4), Iverson GL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Copeman Healthcare Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada; Department of Psychology,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. Electronic address:
boazsaffer@hotmail.com. (2)Copeman Healthcare Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada;
School of Kinesiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(3)Copeman Healthcare Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada; School of Kinesiology,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada; Division of Sport
Medicine, Department of Family Practice, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada. (4)Department of Psychology, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. (5)Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Harvard Medical School, Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, & Red 
Sox Foundation and Massachusetts General Hospital Home Base Program, Boston, MA, 
USA; Copeman Healthcare Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Having a brief, standardized, reliable, and valid self-rated test of perceived
cognitive functioning could be beneficial in psychiatry clinical practice,
research, and clinical trials. The PROMIS(®) Applied Cognition-Abilities scales
were developed, evaluated, and distributed by the National Institutes of Health
to measure perceived cognitive functioning. This study examines several aspects
of the reliability and validity of the PROMIS(®) Applied Cognition-Abilities
eight and four-item scales in a sample of adult and older adult medical
outpatients (N=148). Internal consistency reliability was high for both PROMIS(®)
cognition scales. The brief four-item scale was highly correlated with the full
eight-item scale (rs=0.98). There was a moderate correlation between the
PROMIS(®) Applied Cognition-Abilities scales and measures of depression (PHQ-9)
and anxiety (GAD-7). Subgroups of participants screening positively for
depression or anxiety reported significantly worse cognitive functioning than
medical controls, with large effect sizes. The base rates of individual items
endorsed by depressed, anxious, and control participants are reported. More than 
42% of depressed and anxious participants reported problems with their memory and
concentration compared with fewer than 8% of medical controls. The field would
benefit from studies using the PROMIS(®) Applied Cognition-Abilities scales in
more demographically diverse samples and with other established measures of
cognition.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25639374  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


750. Ann Phys Rehabil Med. 2015 Jan 7. pii: S1877-0657(14)01833-8. doi:
10.1016/j.rehab.2014.09.016. [Epub ahead of print]

Brain computer interfaces for neurorehabilitation - its current status as a
rehabilitation strategy post-stroke.

van Dokkum LE(1), Ward T(2), Laffont I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Movement to Health, Euromov, université Montpellier 1, 34090 Montpellier,
France; Department of Electronic Engineering, Maynooth University, Maynooth, Co. 
Kildare, Ireland. (2)Department of Electronic Engineering, Maynooth University,
Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland. (3)Movement to Health, Euromov, université
Montpellier 1, 34090 Montpellier, France; Département de MPR, CHRU de
Montpellier, 34295 Montpellier, France. Electronic address:
i-laffont@chu-montpellier.fr.

The idea of using brain computer interfaces (BCI) for rehabilitation emerged
relatively recently. Basically, BCI for neurorehabilitation involves the
recording and decoding of local brain signals generated by the patient, as he/her
tries to perform a particular task (even if imperfect), or during a mental
imagery task. The main objective is to promote the recruitment of selected brain 
areas involved and to facilitate neural plasticity. The recorded signal can be
used in several ways: (i) to objectify and strengthen motor imagery-based
training, by providing the patient feedback on the imagined motor task, for
example, in a virtual environment; (ii) to generate a desired motor task via
functional electrical stimulation or rehabilitative robotic orthoses attached to 
the patient's limb - encouraging and optimizing task execution as well as
"closing" the disrupted sensorimotor loop by giving the patient the appropriate
sensory feedback; (iii) to understand cerebral reorganizations after lesion, in
order to influence or even quantify plasticity-induced changes in brain networks.
For example, applying cerebral stimulation to re-equilibrate inter-hemispheric
imbalance as shown by functional recording of brain activity during movement may 
help recovery. Its potential usefulness for a patient population has been
demonstrated on various levels and its diverseness in interface applications
makes it adaptable to a large population. The position and status of these very
new rehabilitation systems should now be considered with respect to our current
and more or less validated traditional methods, as well as in the light of the
wide range of possible brain damage. The heterogeneity in post-damage expression 
inevitably complicates the decoding of brain signals and thus their use in
pathological conditions, asking for controlled clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

PMID: 25614021  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


751. Appl Radiat Isot. 2015 Jan 7;97C:182-187. doi: 10.1016/j.apradiso.2015.01.002.
[Epub ahead of print]

Parameter evaluation and fully-automated radiosynthesis of [(11)C]harmine for
imaging of MAO-A for clinical trials.

Philippe C(1), Zeilinger M(1), Mitterhauser M(1), Dumanic M(1), Lanzenberger
R(2), Hacker M(1), Wadsak W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Imaging and Image-guided Therapy, Division of Nuclear
Medicine, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, 
Austria. (2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Medical University of
Vienna, 1090 Vienna, Austria. (3)Department of Biomedical Imaging and
Image-guided Therapy, Division of Nuclear Medicine, Medical University of Vienna,
Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria. Electronic address:
wolfgang.wadsak@meduniwien.ac.at.

The aim of the present study was the evaluation and automation of the
radiosynthesis of [(11)C]harmine for clinical trials. The following parameters
have been investigated: amount of base, precursor concentration, solvent,
reaction temperature and time. The optimum reaction conditions were determined to
be 2-3mg/mL precursor activated with 1eq. 5M NaOH in DMSO, 80°C reaction
temperature and 2min reaction time. Under these conditions 6.1±1GBq (51.0±11%
based on [(11)C]CH3I, corrected for decay) of [(11)C]harmine (n=72) were
obtained. The specific activity was 101.32±28.2GBq/µmol (at EOS). All quality
control parameters were in accordance with the standards for parenteral human
application. Due to its reliability and high yields, this fully-automated
synthesis method can be used as routine set-up.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25594603  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


752. Clin Nutr. 2015 Jan 7. pii: S0261-5614(15)00002-3. doi:
10.1016/j.clnu.2014.12.019. [Epub ahead of print]

Antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects of curcuminoid-piperine combination in 
subjects with metabolic syndrome: A randomized controlled trial and an updated
meta-analysis.

Panahi Y(1), Hosseini MS(2), Khalili N(2), Naimi E(2), Majeed M(3), Sahebkar
A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Injuries Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Department of Endocrinology, Baqiyatallah University
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (3)Sabinsa Inc, Princeton, NJ, United States. 
(4)Biotechnology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran; Metabolic Research Centre, Royal Perth Hospital, School of
Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.
Electronic address: sahebkara@mums.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: Oxidative stress and inflammation have been proposed as emerging
components of metabolic syndrome (MetS). Curcuminoids are natural polyphenols
with strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.
OBJECTIVE: To study the effectiveness of supplementation with a bioavailable
curcuminoid preparation on measures of oxidative stress and inflammation in
patients with MetS. Our secondary aim was to perform a meta-analysis of data from
all randomized controlled trials in order to estimate the effect size of
curcuminoids on plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) concentrations.
METHODS: In this randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial, 117 subjects
with MetS (according to the NCEP-ATPIII diagnostic criteria) were randomly
assigned to curcuminoids (n = 59; drop-outs = 9) or placebo (n = 58;
drop-outs = 8) for eight weeks. Curcuminoids were administered at a daily dose of
1 g, and were co-supplemented with piperine (10 mg/day) in order to boost oral
bioavailability. Serum activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and
concentrations of malondialdehyde (MDA) and CRP were measured at baseline and at 
study end. Regarding the importance of CRP as a risk marker and risk factor of
cardiovascular disease, a random-effects meta-analysis of clinical trials was
performed to estimate the overall impact of curcuminoid therapy on circulating
concentrations of CRP. The robustness of estimated effect size was evaluated
using leave-one-out sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Supplementation with curcuminoid-piperine combination significantly
improved serum SOD activities (p < 0.001) and reduced MDA (p < 0.001) and CRP
(p < 0.001) concentrations compared with placebo. Quantitative data synthesis
revealed a significant effect of curcuminoids vs. placebo in reducing circulating
CRP concentrations (weighed mean difference: -2.20 mg/L; 95% confidence interval 
[CI]: -3.96, -0.44; p = 0.01). This effect was robust in sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Short-term supplementation with curcuminoid-piperine combination
significantly improves oxidative and inflammatory status in patients with MetS.
Curcuminoids could be regarded as natural, safe and effective CRP-lowering
agents.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25618800  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


753. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2015 Jan 7. pii: S0924-977X(14)00358-7. doi:
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.12.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Psychiatric diseases moving towards adolescents and children: How much room is
there for extrapolation?

Andres-Trelles F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, Spain. 
Electronic address: fandrest@med.ucm.es.

Since medicines for psychiatric diseases are often studied in adults first, it
would be useful if data from efficacy trials in adults could be extrapolated to
children and adolescents. However, it is not sufficient to adapt the adult
dosages to achieve systemic exposure levels similar to those effective in adults.
This can be done with increasing predictive accuracy but before accepting that
the same plasma levels should result in the same efficacy as in adults both the
mechanism of action of the drug and the pathophysiology of the disease must be
considered. For psychiatric disorders there is often insufficient evidence to
support the assumptions for extrapolating efficacy as it is not even always sure 
that the same diagnostic categories correspond to the same disease in adults and 
children. Even when the basic biological alteration behind the disorder could be 
considered the same, the psychodynamic consequences and the role of
non-pharmacological approaches to treatment may substantially differ across age
groups. These facts, together with the absence of detailed historical data on the
actual correlations between paediatric and adult responses for many types of
psycho-therapeutic medicines, make it difficult to accept extrapolation as the
main proof of efficacy in children and adolescents. A corollary is that since
efficacy studies will normally be required, they should not be unduly postponed. 
For products addressing a medical need with good scientific plausibility, they
should be initiated as soon as the anticipated safety concerns can be reasonably 
managed within the context of a paediatric clinical trial.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 25649679  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


754. Medwave. 2015 Jan 7;15(1):e6062. doi: 10.5867/medwave.2015.01.6062.

[Polyunsaturated fatty acids for multiple sclerosis treatment].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Kong-González M(1), Pérez-Cortéz JG(2), Hernández-Girón C(3), Macías-Morales
N(4), Flores-Aldana M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Escuela de Nutrición, Campus Universitario Siglo XXI, Toluca, Estado de
México, México. Address: Av. Universidad N° 655, CP 62100, Cuernavaca, Morelos,
México. Email: chernand@insp.mx. (2)Campus de la Salud, Universidad
Latinoamericana, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México. (3)Centro de Investigación en Salud
Poblacional, Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México.
(4)Centro de Investigación en Nutrición y Salud, Instituto Nacional de Salud
Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México.

INTRODUCTION: Fatty acids have an important role in structure and function of the
nervous system. Recently, epidemiologic studies on neurodegenerative disorders
have evaluated the usefulness of polyunsaturated fatty acids on multiple
sclerosis.
OBJECTIVE: To examine recent studies, clinical trials, and reviews on the
therapeutic effect of polyunsaturated fatty acids in multiple sclerosis.
METHODS: We conducted a search in MEDLINE/PubMed and Cochrane Library with the
terms "fatty acids", "omega-3" and "omega-6" in combination with "multiple
sclerosis". Articles were selected according to their relevance on the topic.
RESULTS: Epidemiologic studies have shown benefits of dietary supplementation
with polyunsaturated fatty acids -especially omega-3- in relation to
inflammatory, autoimmune and neurodegenerative disorders. In contrast, the
studies do not show a beneficial effect of polyunsaturated fatty acids in
multiple sclerosis. However, there are limitations related to design and sample
issues in these studies.
CONCLUSIONS: There is some evidence of a protective effect of polyunsaturated
fatty acids on the risk of multiple sclerosis. Despite this, to date controlled
trials have not produced definite results on the benefits of supplementation with
polyunsaturated fatty acids in patients with multiple sclerosis. Any potential
benefit will have to be confirmed in the long term.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
PMID: 25628005  [PubMed - in process]


755. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2015 Jan 3. pii: S1040-8428(14)00234-0. doi:
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2014.12.014. [Epub ahead of print]

Concomitant drugs with low risks of drug-drug interactions for use in oncology
clinical trials.

Ranchon F(1), Vial T(2), Rioufol C(1), Hénin E(3), Falandry C(4), Freyer G(4),
Trillet-Lenoir V(4), Le Tourneau C(5), You B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Pharmacie Clinique Oncologique, Groupement Hospitalier Sud, Hospices 
Civils de Lyon, Lyon, France; EMR UCBL/HCL 3738, Faculté de médecine Lyon-Sud,
Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France. (2)Centre régional de
Pharmacovigilance, Lyon, France. (3)EMR UCBL/HCL 3738, Faculté de médecine
Lyon-Sud, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France. (4)EMR UCBL/HCL 3738,
Faculté de médecine Lyon-Sud, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France;
Oncologie Médicale, Centre d'Investigation des Thérapeutiques en Oncologie et
Hématologie de Lyon (CITOHL), Groupement Hospitalier Sud, Institut de
Cancérologie des Hospices, Civils de Lyon (IC-HCL), Lyon, France. (5)Département 
d'Oncologie Médicale, Unité d'Investigation Clinique, INSERM U900, Institut
Curie, Paris, France. (6)EMR UCBL/HCL 3738, Faculté de médecine Lyon-Sud,
Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France; Oncologie Médicale, Centre
d'Investigation des Thérapeutiques en Oncologie et Hématologie de Lyon (CITOHL), 
Groupement Hospitalier Sud, Institut de Cancérologie des Hospices, Civils de Lyon
(IC-HCL), Lyon, France. Electronic address: benoit.you@chu-lyon.fr.

BACKGROUND: Drug-drug interactions (DDIs) may occur with investigational drugs
and affect patient safety, trial outcomes, and drug development. A list of
preferred drugs with minimal risks of DDIs for treatment of symptoms or
comorbidities frequently encountered by cancer patients would be helpful.
METHODS: We reviewed the literature to assess DDIs reported for the main drugs
available for treatment of symptoms/comorbidities frequently encountered by
cancer patients. Reviews and relevant original articles cited were retrieved and 
analyzed, and the following data were collected and double-checked:
pharmacological properties; effects, if any, of drugs on CYP enzymes, membrane
transporters, and QT interval; and involvement in significant DDIs.
RESULTS: A list of preferred drugs with minimal risks of DDIs was compiled.
CONCLUSION: Acknowledging for heterogeneity in data sources, prevention of
unexpected DDIs during clinical trials may be improved by using this list of
preferred drugs for the management of study patient's symptoms.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25638703  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


756. Thromb Res. 2015 Jan 2. pii: S0049-3848(14)00688-4. doi:
10.1016/j.thromres.2014.12.019. [Epub ahead of print]

More efficient reversal of dabigatran inhibition of coagulation by activated
prothrombin complex concentrate or recombinant factor VIIa than by four-factor
prothrombin complex concentrate.

Lindahl TL(1), Wallstedt M(2), Gustafsson KM(3), Persson E(4), Hillarp A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Linköping University, Linköping, 
Sweden; Dept. of Clinical Chemistry and Dept. of Clinical and Experimental
Medicine, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden. Electronic address:
tomas.lindahl@liu.se. (2)Dept. of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Linköping
University, Linköping, Sweden. (3)Dept. of Clinical Chemistry and Dept. of
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(4)Novo Nordisk A/S, Novo Nordisk Park, Måløv, Denmark. (5)Dept. of Clinical
Chemistry, Halmstad Hospital, Halmstad, Sweden.

The number of patients on antithrombotic treatment due to atrial fibrillation and
venous thromboembolism is increasing fast due to an aging population. A growing
proportion will be treated with novel oral anticoagulants, the first in clinical 
use was the direct oral thrombin inhibitor dabigatran (Pradaxa®). A small
percentage of the patients on dabigatran will experience serious bleeding or be
in need of urgent surgery. The aim of this study was to test the effects of
different hemostatic agents in potentially reversing the anticoagulant effects in
vitro in blood or platelet-rich plasma (PRP) spiked with dabigatran. Whole blood 
or PRP was spiked with the active substance dabigatran, 200μg/L. We measured
clotting time being induced by 1.4 pmol/L tissue factor using the instrument
ReoRox2™ and initial clot growth velocity from a tissue factor covered surface
using the instrument Thrombodynamics Analyzer T-2™. Dabigatran prolonged clotting
time 5-fold but reduced clot growth velocity only slightly. The reversing effects
of prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC), activated PCC (APCC) and recombinant
activated factor VII (rFVIIa) were then tested. APCC (1.8 U/mL) reduced the
prolonged clotting time by 1/3, rFVIIa (2μg/L) only slightly (n=10-20). The
reduction was not significant using Mann-Whitney test but significant using
t-test with Bonferronis' correction for multiple comparisons, whereas PCC (0.56
U/mL) had no effect on clotting time. APCC doubled initial clot growth velocity, 
although even more in the absence of dabigatran. In conclusion, APCC and rFVIIa, 
but not PCC, seem to reverse, at least partially, some effects of dabigatran on
coagulation parameters. Systematic evaluation of case reports, registries and,
ultimately, randomized clinical trials are needed to elucidate potential benefit 
for patients.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596769  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


757. Adv Genet. 2015;89:235-62. doi: 10.1016/bs.adgen.2014.10.006. Epub 2014 Dec 4.

Gene electrotransfer clinical trials.

Heller R(1), Heller LC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Frank Reidy Research Center for Bioelectrics, Old Dominion University,
Norfolk, VA, USA; School of Medical Diagnostics and Translational Sciences,
College of Health Sciences, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, USA.

Plasmid or non-viral gene therapy offers an alternative to classic viral gene
delivery that negates the need for a biological vector. In this case, delivery is
enhanced by a variety of approaches including lipid or polymer conjugation,
particle-mediated delivery, hydrodynamic delivery, ultrasound or electroporation.
Electroporation was originally used as a laboratory tool to deliver DNA to
bacterial and mammalian cells in culture. Electrode development allowed this
technique to be modified for in vivo use. After preclinical therapeutic studies, 
clinical delivery of cell impermeant chemotherapeutic agents progressed to
clinical delivery of plasmid DNA. One huge benefit of this delivery technique is 
its malleability. The pulse protocol used for plasmid delivery can be fine-tuned 
to control the levels and duration of subsequent transgene expression. This
fine-tuning allows transgene expression to be tailored to each therapeutic
application. Effective and appropriate expression induces the desired clinical
response that is a critical component for any gene therapy. This chapter focuses 
on clinical trials using in vivo electroporation or electrotransfer as a plasmid 
delivery method. The first clinical trial was initiated in 2004, and now more
than fifty trials use electric fields for gene delivery. Safety and tolerability 
has been demonstrated by several groups, and early clinical efficacy results are 
promising in both cancer therapeutic and infectious disease vaccine applications.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620013  [PubMed - in process]


758. Adv Genet. 2015;89:179-233. doi: 10.1016/bs.adgen.2014.10.005. Epub 2014 Dec 4.

Self-amplifying mRNA vaccines.

Brito LA(1), Kommareddy S(1), Maione D(2), Uematsu Y(2), Giovani C(2), Berlanda
Scorza F(3), Otten GR(1), Yu D(1), Mandl CW(1), Mason PW(4), Dormitzer PR(1),
Ulmer JB(1), Geall AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Vaccines, Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA. (2)Novartis Vaccines, Inc.,
Siena, Italy. (3)Novartis Vaccines, Inc., Holly Springs, NC, USA. (4)Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Tarrytown, NY, USA.

This chapter provides a brief introduction to nucleic acid-based vaccines and
recent research in developing self-amplifying mRNA vaccines. These vaccines
promise the flexibility of plasmid DNA vaccines with enhanced immunogenicity and 
safety. The key to realizing the full potential of these vaccines is efficient
delivery of nucleic acid to the cytoplasm of a cell, where it can amplify and
express the encoded antigenic protein. The hydrophilicity and strong net negative
charge of RNA impedes cellular uptake. To overcome this limitation, electrostatic
complexation with cationic lipids or polymers and physical delivery using
electroporation or ballistic particles to improve cellular uptake has been
evaluated. This chapter highlights the rapid progress made in using nonviral
delivery systems for RNA-based vaccines. Initial preclinical testing of
self-amplifying mRNA vaccines has shown nonviral delivery to be capable of
producing potent and robust innate and adaptive immune responses in small animals
and nonhuman primates. Historically, the prospect of developing mRNA vaccines was
uncertain due to concerns of mRNA instability and the feasibility of large-scale 
manufacturing. Today, these issues are no longer perceived as barriers in the
widespread implementation of the technology. Currently, nonamplifying mRNA
vaccines are under investigation in human clinical trials and can be produced at 
a sufficient quantity and quality to meet regulatory requirements. If the
encouraging preclinical data with self-amplifying mRNA vaccines are matched by
equivalently positive immunogenicity, potency, and tolerability in human trials, 
this platform could establish nucleic acid vaccines as a versatile new tool for
human immunization.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620012  [PubMed - in process]


759. Adv Pharmacol. 2015;73:71-96. doi: 10.1016/bs.apha.2014.11.007. Epub 2015 Jan 14.

Restoring the Spinal Pain Gate: GABAA Receptors as Targets for Novel Analgesics.

Zeilhofer HU(1), Ralvenius WT(2), Acuña MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland; Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology (ETH) Zürich, Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
zeilhofer@pharma.uzh.ch. (2)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University 
of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

GABAA receptors (GABAARs) and glycine receptors are key elements of the spinal
control of nociception and pain. Compromised functioning of these two transmitter
systems contributes to chronic pain states. Restoring their proper function
through positive allosteric modulators should constitute a rational approach to
the treatment of chronic pain syndromes involving diminished inhibitory spinal
pain control. Although classical benzodiazepines (i.e., full agonists at the
benzodiazepine binding site of GABAARs) potentiate synaptic inhibition in spinal 
pain controlling circuits, they lack clinically relevant analgesic activity in
humans. Recent data obtained from experiments in GABAAR point-mutated mice
suggests dose-limiting sedative effects of classical nonspecific benzodiazepines 
as the underlying cause. Experiments in genetically engineered mice resistant to 
the sedative effects of classical benzodiazepines and studies with novel less
sedating benzodiazepines have indeed shown that profound antihyperalgesia can be 
obtained at least in preclinical pain models. Present evidence suggests that
compounds with high intrinsic activity at α2-GABAAR and minimal agonistic
activity at α1-GABAAR should possess relevant antihyperalgesic activity without
causing unwanted sedation. On-going preclinical studies in genetically engineered
mice and clinical trials with more selective benzodiazepine site agonists should 
soon provide additional insights into this emerging topic.

© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25637438  [PubMed - in process]


760. Adv Ther. 2015 Jan;32(1):10-30. doi: 10.1007/s12325-015-0178-4. Epub 2015 Jan 27.

Early Direct and Indirect Impact of Quadrivalent HPV (4HPV) Vaccine on Genital
Warts: a Systematic Review.

Mariani L(1), Vici P, Suligoi B, Checcucci-Lisi G, Drury R.

Author information: 
(1)HPV-UNIT, Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Regina Elena National Cancer
Institute, Rome, Italy, mariani@ifo.it.

INTRODUCTION: Since 2007, many countries have implemented national human
papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination programs with the quadrivalent HPV (4HPV)
vaccine that has been shown to be efficacious in clinical trials involving 25,000
subjects. Two vaccine serotypes, HPV16 and 18, are responsible for cervical
cancer and other HPV-related cancers, but the impact of the 4HPV vaccine on these
cancers cannot be seen immediately as there is a considerable lag between
infection with HPV and cancer development. The other two serotypes, HPV6 and 11, 
are responsible for genital warts (GWs), which develop within a few months after 
infection, making GWs an early clinical endpoint for the assessment of the impact
of 4HPV vaccination.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search in PubMed to identify all
published studies on 4HPV vaccination, including those that assessed the impact
of 4HPV vaccination programs on the incidence of GWs at a population level around
the world.
RESULTS: A total of 354 records were identified in the PubMed search. After
screening and obtaining full papers for 56 publications, 16 publications
presenting data on the impact or effectiveness of 4HPV vaccination on GWs were
identified. These reported data on the impact or effectiveness of 4HPV in six
countries [Australia (n = 6), New Zealand (n = 2), United States (n = 3), Denmark
(n = 2), Germany (n = 1), and Sweden (n = 2)]. In Australia, no GWs were
diagnosed in women aged <21 years who reported being vaccinated. A 92.6%
reduction in GWs incidence was reported for all women in this age group, where
the vaccine uptake rate (VUR) was 70% for 3 doses. The highest reductions were
reported in countries with high VURs, mostly through school-based vaccination
programs, although high VURs were obtained with some non-school-based programs.
CONCLUSION: The results are coherent with the GWs incidence reduction reported in
clinical trials and are an early indicator of what can be expected for the
long-term clinical impact on vaccine-type HPV-related cancers.

PMCID: PMC4311067
PMID: 25620536  [PubMed - in process]


761. Altern Ther Health Med. 2015 Jan;21(1):36-44.

The Therapeutic Effect and Possible Harm of Puerarin for Treatment of Stage III
Diabetic Nephropathy: A Meta-analysis.

Wang B, Chen BS, Yan FX, Li dM, Li Qd, Lv P, Ti XG.

Context • Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the main cause of end-stage kidney disease
in developed countries. Current therapy can slow the rate of progression of DN,
but eventually end-stage renal failure will occur in a proportion of patients.
Identification of new strategies and additional complementary and alternative
therapies for treating DN are important. Objective • The research team wanted to 
assess the beneficial and harmful effects of using puerarin plus angiotensin
converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) compared with using only ACEI for treatment of
individuals with stage III DN. Design • The research team performed a
meta-analysis of randomized, controlled trials (RCTs) by searching the following 
electronic databases: (1) the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, (2) the
Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), (3) PubMed, (4) EMBASE 
(Elsevier), (5) the Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED), (6) the
Chinese Biomedicine Database (CBM), (7) the China National Knowledge
Infrastructure (CNKI), and (8) the Chinese Biomedical Journals (VIP), with no
language restrictions, as well as databases of clinical trials. Outcome Measures 
• Measured outcomes included (1) urinary protein measured as urinary albumin
excretion rate (UAER) (μg/min) and 24-h urine protein (24-h UP) (mg/24 h); (2)
renal function measured as blood urea nitrogen (BUN) (mmol/L) and serum
creatinine (SCr) (μmol/L); (3) α1-microglobulin (α1-MG) (mg/24 h) and
endothelin-1 (ET-1) (ng/24 h); (4) end points (EPs); and (5) adverse events
(AEs). Results • Ten RCTs involving 669 participants were included. All trials
were conducted and published in China. Treatment of DN with puerarin plus ACEI
significantly decreased the UAER-P < .0001, MD = -23.43 (95% CI, -33.95 to
-12.91), and had no effect on 24-h UP-P = .09, MD = -56.76 (95% CI, -122.65 to
9.12); BUN-P = .17, MD = -0.51 (95% CI, -1.24 to 0.21); and SCr-P = .26, MD =
-4.43 (95% CI, -12.05 to 3.20). One trial reported abdominal discomfort and
nausea (2 cases) in the treatment group. Conclusions • Puerarin may be a
beneficial therapy for treating DN; however, this hypothesis needs to be proven
by additional high-quality studies using large samples and multicenter evidence.

PMID: 25599431  [PubMed - in process]


762. Am J Cancer Res. 2014 Dec 15;5(1):20-31. eCollection 2015.

MicroRNA regulation and therapeutic targeting of survivin in cancer.

Huang J(1), Lyu H(2), Wang J(3), Liu B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Colorado Anschutz
Medical Campus Aurora, CO, USA ; State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology,
Institute of Hematology and Blood Disease Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College Tianjin, China. (2)Department of
Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus
Aurora, CO, USA. (3)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Institute of
Hematology and Blood Disease Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and
Peking Union Medical College Tianjin, China.

Survivin, the smallest member of IAP (inhibitor of apoptosis) family, is a dual
functional protein acting as a critical apoptosis inhibitor and key cell cycle
regulator. Survivin is usually expressed in embryonic tissues during development 
and undetectable in most terminally differentiated tissues. Numerous studies
demonstrate that survivin is selectively upregulated in almost all types of human
malignancies and its overexpression positively correlates with poor prognosis,
tumor recurrence, and therapeutic resistance. This differential expression of
survivin in tumors and normal tissues draws a great interest to develop
survivin-targeted therapy for cancer treatment. Nonetheless, the molecular
mechanisms controlling survivin expression in malignant tumor cells have not been
fully understood. While aberrant activation of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs)
and the downstream signaling, such as PI-3K/Akt, MEK/MAPK, mTOR, and STAT
pathways, have frequently been shown to upregulate survivin, recent data suggest 
that a class of noncoding RNAs, microRNAs (miRNAs) also play an important role in
survivin dysregulation in human cancers. Here, we focus on survivin
expression-regulated by specific miRNAs binding to the 3'-UTR of survivin mRNA,
and summarize the latest advances on survivin-targeted therapy in clinical trials
and the therapeutic potential of survivin-targeting miRNAs in cancer.

PMCID: PMC4300714
PMID: 25628918  [PubMed]


763. Am J Cancer Res. 2014 Dec 15;5(1):1-19. eCollection 2015.

MYC-xing it up with PIK3CA mutation and resistance to PI3K inhibitors: summit of 
two giants in breast cancers.

Dey N(1), Leyland-Jones B(1), De P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Experimental Medicine, Avera Research Institute
Sioux Falls, SD ; Department of Internal Medicine, SSOM, University of South
Dakota SD.

Approximately 35% of breast cancers exhibit PIK3CA activating mutation. Since
PIK3CA hotspot mutation is the most frequently mutated gene in human breast
cancers and primarily overlaps in HER2+ as well as ER+ breast cancers, the subset
of patients bearing PIK3CA activating mutation does not get fullest benefit from 
either anti-HER2 or anti-hormonal agents. Literature also suggests that these
patients may have chemotherapy resistance. Indeed, multiple clinical trials are
currently evaluating the efficacy of over 30 drugs targeting different nodal
points in the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway in breast and other cancers. However, to
date, responses of solid tumors to PI3K pathway inhibitor monotherapy remains
modest with an accompanied rapid emergences of drug resistance. MYC elevation
represents one of the potential modes of actions by which breast tumors develop
resistance to the PI3K pathway-specific targeted therapies. As products of
oncogenes, both MYC and PIK3CA are well-established onco-proteins which
contribute to breast oncogenesis. However, their similarities out number their
dissimilarities in the context of their specific oncogenic cellular signals. In
this review we will describe the specific cellular signals initiated following
alteration in the MYC gene and PIK3CA gene in breast cancers. We will interrogate
how MYC gene alterations influence the action of PI3K pathway targeted drugs in
the context of PIK3CA mutation towards the development PI3K inhibitor induced
drug-resistance in breast cancers.

PMCID: PMC4300701
PMID: 25628917  [PubMed]


764. Am J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2014 Dec 15;5(1):95.

Erratum: Automated synthesis and dosimetry of 6-deoxy-6-[(18)F]fluoro-D-fructose 
(6-[(18)F]FDF): a radiotracer for imaging of GLUT5 in breast cancer.

Bouvet V(1), Jans HS(1), Wuest M(1), Soueidan OM(2), Grant T(2), Mercer J(1),
McEwan AJ(1), West FG(2), Cheeseman CI(3), Wuest F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Alberta Edmonton, AB - T6G 1Z2, Canada. 
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta Edmonton, AB - T6G 1Z2, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology, University of Alberta Edmonton, AB - T6G 1Z2,
Canada.

6-Deoxy-6-[(18)F]fluoro-D-fructose (6-[(18)F]FDF) is a promising PET radiotracer 
for imaging GLUT5 in breast cancer. The present work describes GMP synthesis of
6-[(18)F]FDF in an automated synthesis unit (ASU) and dosimetry calculations to
determine radiation doses in humans. GMP synthesis and dosimetry calculations are
important prerequisites for first-in-human clinical studies of 6-[(18)F]FDF. The 
radiochemical synthesis of 6-[(18)F]FDF was optimized and adapted to an automated
synthesis process using a Tracerlab FXFN ASU (GE Healthcare). Starting from 30
GBq of cyclotron-produced n.c.a. [(18)F]fluoride, 2.9 ± 0.1 GBq of 6-[(18)F]FDF
could be prepared within 50 min including HPLC purification resulting in an
overall decay-corrected radiochemical yield of 14 ± 3% (n = 11). Radiochemical
purity exceeded 95%, and the specific activity was greater than 5.1 GBq/μmol.
Sprague-Dawley rats were used for biodistribution experiments, and dynamic and
static small animal PET experiments. Biodistribution studies served as basis for 
allometric extrapolation to the standard man anatomic model and normal
organ-absorbed dose calculations using OLINDA/EXM software. The calculated human 
effective dose for 6-[(18)F]FDF was 0.0089 mSv/MBq. Highest organ doses with a
dose equivalent of 0.0315 mSv/MBq in a humans were found in bone. Injection of
370 MBq (10 mCi) of 6-[(18)F]FDF results in an effective whole body radiation
dose of 3.3 mSv in humans, a value comparable to that of other (18)F-labeled PET 
radiopharmaceuticals. The optimized automated synthesis under GMP conditions, the
good radiochemical yield and the favorable human radiation dosimetry estimates
support application of 6-[(18)F]FDF in clinical trials for molecular imaging of
GLUT5 in breast cancer patients.[This corrects the article on p. 248 in vol. 4.].

PMCID: PMC4299773
PMID: 25625031  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


765. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2015 Jan;2(1):38-42. doi: 10.1002/acn3.150. Epub 2014 Dec
17.

Telemedicine-guided remote enrollment of patients into an acute stroke trial.

Wu TC(1), Sarraj A(1), Jacobs A(1), Shen L(1), Indupuru H(1), Biscamp D(2), Ho
V(2), Ankrom C(1), Grotta JC(3), Savitz SI(1), Barreto AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Texas-Health Science Center at Houston 
Houston, Texas. (2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Baptist Hospitals of
Southeast Texas Beaumont, Texas. (3)Clinical Innovation and Research Institute,
Memorial Hermann Hospital-Texas Medical Center Houston, Texas.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Enrollment into acute stroke clinical trials is limited
to experienced tertiary centers with emergency research infrastructure.
Feasibility of remote enrollment via telemedicine into an acute thrombolytic
clinical trial has never been demonstrated.
METHODS: Using telemedicine, our hub stroke research center partnered with two
spoke community hospitals to jointly participate in a randomized, phase III
adjunctive thrombolysis clinical trial in the first 3 h after symptom onset to
expand recruitment of the trial. Eligible patients were successfully identified, 
consented, randomized, and received therapy/placebo at the spoke hospitals under 
real-time direction by hub trialists via telemedicine.
RESULTS: Ten patients were identified from May 2013 to July 2014, and six were
enrolled via telemedicine. No study procedure delays, safety events, or major
protocol violations occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: It is feasible to randomize and enroll stroke patients via remote
telemedicine into an acute thrombolytic clinical trial. This novel approach could
expand access and accelerate completion of clinical trials if widely implemented.

PMCID: PMC4301673
PMID: 25642433  [PubMed]


766. Ann Surg. 2015 Jan;261(1):46-55. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000000622.

The status of contemporary image-guided modalities in oncologic surgery.

Rosenthal EL(1), Warram JM, Bland KI, Zinn KR.

Author information: 
(1)*Departments of Surgery and †Radiology, The University of Alabama at
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL.

OBJECTIVE: To review the current trends in optical imaging to guide oncologic
surgery.
BACKGROUND: Surgical resection remains the cornerstone of therapy for patients
with early stage solid malignancies and more than half of all patients with
cancer undergo surgery each year. The technical ability of the surgeon to obtain 
clear surgical margins at the initial resection remains crucial to improve
overall survival and long-term morbidity. Current resection techniques are
largely based on subjective and subtle changes associated with tissue distortion 
by invasive cancer. As a result, positive surgical margins occur in a significant
portion of tumor resections, which is directly correlated with a poor outcome.
METHODS: A comprehensive review of studies evaluating optical imaging techniques 
is performed.
RESULTS: A variety of cancer imaging techniques have been adapted or developed
for intraoperative surgical guidance that have been shown to improve functional
and oncologic outcomes in randomized clinical trials. There are also a large
number of novel, cancer-specific contrast agents that are in early stage clinical
trials and preclinical development that demonstrate significant promise to
improve real-time detection of subclinical cancer in the operative setting.
CONCLUSIONS: There has been an explosion of intraoperative imaging techniques
that will become more widespread in the next decade.

PMCID: PMC4299947 [Available on 2016-01-01]
PMID: 25599326  [PubMed - in process]


767. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2015 Jan;73(1):58-63. doi: 10.1590/0004-282X20140180. Epub
2015 Jan 1.

Placebo and nocebo effects in the neurological practice.

Bittar C(1), Nascimento OJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Neurologia, Hospital Universitário Antonio Pedro, Universidade
Federal Fluminense, Niterói, RJ, Brazil.

Knowledge of placebo and nocebo effects is essential to identify their influence 
on the results in clinical practice and clinical trials, and thereby properly
interpret their results. It is known that the gold standard of clinical trials
research is the double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical study. The 
objective of this review is to distinguish specific from non-specific effects, so
that the presence of positive effects in the group that received placebo (placebo
effect) and the presence of adverse effects in the group receiving placebo
(nocebo effect) lead to confounding in interpreting the results. Placebo and
nocebo effects have been considered in neurological diseases such as depression, 
pain, headache, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy. As placebo and nocebo effects are
also present in clinical practice, the purpose of this review is to draw
attention to their influence on neurological practice, calling attention to the
development of measures that can minimize them.

PMID: 25608129  [PubMed - in process]


768. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2015 Jan;29(1):57-75. doi:
10.1016/j.beem.2014.10.004. Epub 2014 Oct 25.

Treatment of hypothyroidism with levothyroxine or a combination of levothyroxine 
plus L-triiodothyronine.

Escobar-Morreale HF(1), Botella-Carretero JI(2), Morreale de Escobar G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology & Nutrition, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal 
& Instituto Ramón y Cajal de Investigación Sanitaria IRYCYS, Madrid, Spain;
Universidad de Alcalá & Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Diabetes y
Enfermedades Metabólicas Asociadas CIBERDEM, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
hectorfrancisco.escobar@salud.madrid.org. (2)Department of Endocrinology &
Nutrition, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal & Instituto Ramón y Cajal de
Investigación Sanitaria IRYCYS, Madrid, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica 
en Red Diabetes y Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y la Nutrición (CIBEROBN),
Madrid, Spain. (3)Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas y Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.

At present, the drug of choice for the treatment of hypothyroidism is
levothyroxine sodium, even though the thyroid gland secretes both thyroxine and
3',3,5-triiodothyronine; the latter is the more active of the two at the cellular
level because of its higher affinity for the nuclear thyroid hormone receptors.
To date, combined levothyroxine plus liothyronine treatment for hypothyroidism
has been evaluated in 15 clinical trials in humans. In two studies, combined
therapy seemed to have beneficial effects on mood, quality of life, and
psychometric performance of patients, compared with levothyroxine alone; in some 
of these studies, the patients preferred levothyroxine plus liothyronine
combinations. This preference should be balanced against the possibility of
adverse events resulting from the addition of liothyronine to levothyroxine.
Until clear advantages of levothyroxine plus liothyronine are demonstrated, the
administration of levothyroxine alone should remain the treatment of choice for
replacement therapy of hypothyroidism.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25617173  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


769. Biomark Med. 2015 Jan;9(1):35-49. doi: 10.2217/bmm.14.95.

HER2 testing and its predictive utility in anti-HER2 breast cancer therapy.

Advani PP(1), Crozier JA, Perez EA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology & Oncology, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road S.,
Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.

Breast cancer treatment is dependent on accurate pathologic diagnosis. HER2
testing is now universally recommended as part of evaluation of invasive breast
cancer. HER2 testing is available via various slide and non-slide based assays,
and interpretation of results continues to evolve. Herein we review these testing
modalities and their incorporation into the 2013 ASCO/CAP guidelines. Once
accurate HER2 status has been established the proper treatment based on recent
clinical trials can be instituted.

PMID: 25605454  [PubMed - in process]


770. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:834262. doi: 10.1155/2015/834262. Epub 2015 Jan 5.

Computer-aided quantification of interstitial lung disease from high resolution
computed tomography images in systemic sclerosis: correlation with visual
reader-based score and physiologic tests.

Salaffi F(1), Carotti M(2), Bosello S(3), Ciapetti A(1), Gutierrez M(1),
Bichisecchi E(2), Giuseppetti G(2), Ferraccioli G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Polytechnic University of the Marche, Ancona,
Italy. (2)Department of Radiology, Polytechnic University of the Marche, Ancona, 
Italy. (3)Division of Rheumatology, School of Medicine, Catholic University of
the Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy.

Objective. To evaluate the performance of a computerized-aided method (CaM) for
quantification of interstitial lung disease (ILD) in patients with systemic
sclerosis and to determine its correlation with the conventional visual
reader-based score (CoVR) and the pulmonary function tests (PFTs). Methods.
Seventy-nine patients were enrolled. All patients underwent chest high resolution
computed tomography (HRCT) scored by two radiologists adopting the CoVR. All HRCT
images were then analysed by a CaM using a DICOM software. The relationships
among the lung segmentation analysis, the readers, and the PFTs results were
calculated using linear regression analysis and Pearson's correlation. Receiver
operating curve analysis was performed for determination of CaM extent threshold.
Results. A strong correlation between CaM and CoVR was observed (P < 0.0001). The
CaM showed a significant negative correlation with forced vital capacity (FVC) (P
< 0.0001) and the single breath carbon monoxide diffusing capacity of the lung
(DLco) (P < 0.0001). A CaM optimal extent threshold of 20% represented the best
compromise between sensitivity (75.6%) and specificity (97.4%). Conclusions. CaM 
quantification of SSc-ILD can be useful in the assessment of extent of lung
disease and may provide reliable tool in daily clinical practice and clinical
trials.

PMCID: PMC4299560
PMID: 25629053  [PubMed - in process]


771. Blood Purif. 2015;39(1-3):16-20. doi: 10.1159/000368975. Epub 2015 Jan 20.

Dietary sodium intake: scientific basis for public policy.

Whelton PK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Tulane University School of Public Health and
Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, La., USA.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: National and international agencies recommend a reduction in
dietary sodium intake. However, some have questioned the wisdom of these
policies. The goal of this report was to assess the findings and quality of
studies that have examined the relationship between dietary sodium and both blood
pressure and cardiovascular disease.
METHODS: Literature review of the available observational studies and randomized 
controlled trials, including systematic reviews and meta-analyses.
RESULTS: A large body of evidence from observational studies and clinical trials 
documents a direct relationship between dietary sodium intake and the level of
blood pressure, especially in persons with a higher level of blood pressure,
African-Americans, and those who are older or have comorbidity, including chronic
kidney disease. A majority of the available observational reports support the
presence of a direct relationship between dietary sodium intake and
cardiovascular disease but the quality of the evidence according to most studies 
is poor. The limited information available from clinical trials is consistent
with a beneficial effect of reduced sodium intake on incidence of cardiovascular 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The scientific underpinning for policies to reduce the usual intake 
of dietary sodium is strong. In the United States and many other countries,
addition of sodium during food processing has led to a very high average intake
of dietary sodium, with almost everyone exceeding the recommended goals. National
programs utilizing voluntary and mandatory approaches have resulted in a
successful reduction in sodium intake. Even a small reduction in sodium
consumption is likely to yield sizable improvement in population health. Video
Journal Club 'Cappuccino with Claudio Ronco' at www.karger.com/?doi=368975. ©
2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

PMID: 25660142  [PubMed - in process]


772. Bull Cancer. 2015 Jan;102(1):24-33. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2014.07.001. Epub 2015 
Jan 6.

[The stem cell niche in glioblastoma: From fundamental aspects to targeted
therapies.]

[Article in French]

Turpin A(1), Sharif A(2), Stoven L(3), Blond S(4), Maurage CA(5), Le Rhun É(6).

Author information: 
(1)CHRU de Lille, hôpital Claude-Huriez, service d'oncologie médicale, rue
Michel-Polonovski, 59037 Lille, France; Institut de biologie de Lille,
CNRS-UMR8161, 1, rue du Professeur-Calmette, 59021 Lille cedex, France.
Electronic address: turpin.anth@yahoo.fr. (2)Université du droit et de la santé
- Lille II, faculté de médecine, centre de recherche Jean-Pierre-Aubert, Inserm
U837, place de Verdun, 59045 Lille cedex, France. (3)CHRU de Lille, hôpital
Albert-Calmette, service de pneumologie et oncologie thoracique, boulevard du
Professeur-Jules-Leclercq, 59037 Lille, France; Institut de biologie de Lille,
CNRS-UMR8161, 1, rue du Professeur-Calmette, 59021 Lille cedex, France. (4)CHRU
de Lille, hôpital Roger-Salengro, service de neurochirurgie et de
neuro-oncologie, rue Émile-Laine, 59037 Lille, France. (5)Université du droit et 
de la santé - Lille II, faculté de médecine, centre de recherche
Jean-Pierre-Aubert, Inserm U837, place de Verdun, 59045 Lille cedex, France; CHRU
de Lille, institut de pathologie, centre de biologie-pathologie génétique, CS
70001, 59037 Lille cedex, France. (6)CHRU de Lille, hôpital Roger-Salengro,
service de neurochirurgie et de neuro-oncologie, rue Émile-Laine, 59037 Lille,
France; Centre Oscar-Lambret, département d'oncologie médicale, 3, rue
Frédéric-Combemale, 59020 Lille, France.

The concept of cancer stem cell (CSC) was established from models of
leukemogenesis explaining tumor repopulation by the clonogenic properties of this
specific population of tumoral cells. Among solid tumors, glioblastoma are
currently the most documented models. Cancer stem cells reside in specific
locations within tumors called niches. Anatomically, two complementary niches
have been described in glioblastoma. The first one is a perivascular niche
composed of vessels (endothelial cells, pericytes) and their microenvironment
(integrins, interleukins) constitutive the nest of "normal" neural stem cells and
cancer stem cells. The second one is a hypoxic niche found in regions with low
oxygen tension such as the core of the tumor. In these niches, mutual
interactions between CSC and their microenvironment involving the activation of
multiple signaling pathways promote stemness maintenance and tumor propagation.
The median overall survival of glioblastoma does not exceed 15 months despite an 
aggressive multimodal treatment, thus the therapeutic targeting of these niches, 
by systemic agents or radiotherapy, in order to inhibit the signaling pathways
involved in the maintenance of the CSC niches, represents a major challenge. The 
combination of these two strategies appears promising and many clinical trials
are underway.

Copyright © 2014 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25609493  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


773. Bull Cancer. 2015 Jan;102(1):57-64. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2014.12.003. Epub 2015 
Jan 8.

[Metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer.]

[Article in French]

Gravis G(1), Salem N(2), Walz J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Paoli-Calmettes, oncologie médicale, centre de recherche en
cancérologie de Marseille, UMR1068 Inserm, 232, boulevard de Sainte-Marguerite,
13009 Marseille, France. Electronic address: gravisg@ipc.unicancer.fr.
(2)Institut Paoli-Calmettes, service de radiothérapie, 13009 Marseille, France.
(3)Institut Paoli-Calmettes, service de chirurgie urologique, 13009 Marseille,
France.

The prostate cancer in its hormone-sensitive metastatic presentation is
infrequent, it is either an initial presentation of the disease or an evolution
after local treatment, without castration of the biological relapse. The surgical
or biological castration remains the cornerstone of the treatment. The deadline
of castration initiation and its modalities of administration, intermittent or
continuous rest debated but consensual on the initiation is the appearance of the
symptomatic disease. The chemotherapy by docetaxel in association with the
castration increases significantly the survival of the patients having a high
tumoral volume. The efficacy on the whole metastatic population requires
additional analyses. Clinical prognostic factors as the bone localizations (axial
or appendicular), the visceral involvement (liver, lung) are determining for the 
survival of these patients. Biological prognostic factors are in evaluation.
Except the clodronate acid, which showed a survival improvement in the
hormone-sensitive metastatic prostate cancer (HSMPC), the other treatments
targeting the bone (zoledronic acid, rank-ligand inhibitor) demonstrated a
benefit only in castrate resistant metastatic prostate cancer (MCRPC). The
management of local disease lets suggest a benefit to at least symptomatic
disease, but it requires to be estimated prospectively in clinical trials. The
new hormonal treatments targeting the androgen receptor in CPMRC are in
evaluation in CPMHS. The objective is to increase the survival and the quality of
life of the CPMHS and to delay the evolution towards the castration resistant
metastatic disease.

Copyright © 2014 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25609491  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


774. Bull Cancer. 2015 Jan;102(1):6-16. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2014.12.005. Epub 2015
Jan 13.

[Molecular biology of sarcoma and therapeutic choices.]

[Article in French]

Dufresne A(1), Cassier P(2), Heudel P(2), Pissaloux D(3), Wang Q(3), Blay JY(2), 
Ray-Coquard I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre Léon-Bérard, département d'oncologie médicale, 28, rue Laënnec, 69008
Lyon, France. Electronic address: armelle.dufresne@lyon.unicancer.fr. (2)Centre
Léon-Bérard, département d'oncologie médicale, 28, rue Laënnec, 69008 Lyon,
France. (3)Centre Léon-Bérard, département de biopathologie, 28, rue Laënnec,
69008 Lyon, France.

Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) are a set of very heterogeneous tumors with numerous
histological categories. The development of the molecular biology allowed
identifying recurring molecular anomalies in certain subgroups of sarcomas, being
able to represent diagnostic, prognosis and therapeutic tools. The molecular
classification of STS includes until today 5 main groups of abnormalities:
sarcomas with "simple genomic profile" showing reciprocal (1) chromosomal
translocations, (2) activating mutation, (3) inhibitive mutation or (4) simple
amplification; (5) sarcomas with "complex genomic profile" can include several
tens of molecular abnormalities. The development of new-targeted therapies is
based on the identification of a target, specific of a tumors subgroup and
involved in carcinogenesis mechanisms and/or tumoral growth. Then, the aim of
clinical research is to establish the proof of the concept through clinical
trials, demonstrating the benefit brought to the patient and ending in the
marketing of the drug. This proof of the concept was clearly established for
imatinib, sunitinib and regorafenib in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, for
imatinib in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans and pigmented vilo-nodular synovitis,
for denosumab in giant cell tumors of the bone, ending in the authorization to
use these new therapies in these indications. It is in progress and promising for
anti-IGF-1R in Ewing sarcomas, for crizotinib in myofibroblastic inflammatory
tumors, for mTOR inhibitor in PEComas… The role of molecular abnormalities
identified in the mechanisms of tumoral progress for sarcomas and their potential
therapeutic impact will be detailed.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

PMID: 25609490  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


775. Bull Cancer. 2015 Jan;102(1):73-82. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2014.10.001. Epub 2015 
Jan 2.

[The role of the expansion cohort in phase I trials in oncology: Guidelines of
the phase I HUB.]

[Article in French]

Ezzalfani M(1), Dugué A(2), Mollevi C(3), Pulido M(4), Bonnetain F(5), Filleron
T(6), Gal J(7), Gauthier M(8), Deley MC(9), Le Tourneau C(10), Médioni J(11),
Nguyen JM(12), Chabaud S(13), Teixeira L(14), Thivat E(15), You B(16), Kramar
A(17), Paoletti X(18).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie, département de biostatistique, Inserm U900, 25, rue d'Ulm,
75005 Paris, France. Electronic address: monia.ezzalfani-gahlouzi@curie.fr.
(2)Unité de recherche clinique, CLCC François-Baclesse, 3, avenue du
Général-Harris, 14000 Caen, France. (3)Institut régional du cancer Montpellier,
service de biostatistique, 31, rue de Croix-Verte, 34298 Montpellier cedex 5,
France. (4)Institut Bergonié, CTD, unité de recherche et d'épidémiologie
cliniques, 229, cours de l'Argonne, 33076 Bordeaux cedex, France. (5)CHRU
Besançon et CTD GERCOR, unité de méthodologie et qualité de vie en cancérologie, 
2, place Saint-Jacques, 25000 Besançon, France. (6)Institut Claudius-Regaud,
Bureau des essais cliniques, 20-24, rue du Pont-Saint-Pierre, 31052 Toulouse
cedex, France. (7)Centre Antoine-Lacassagne, unité statistiques, 33, avenue de
Valombrose, 06189 Nice cedex 2, France. (8)Centre de Georges-François-Leclerc,
unité de biostatistique et d'épidémiologie, 1, rue Professeur-Marion, 21079 Dijon
cedex, France. (9)Service de biostatistique et d'épidémiologie, Gustave-Roussy,
39, rue Camille-Desmoulins, 94805 Villejuif cedex, France. (10)Institut Curie,
département d'oncologie médicale, 5, rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France. (11)Hôpital 
européen Georges-Pompidou, service de cancérologie médicale, 20, rue Leblanc,
75015 Paris, France. (12)Centre hospitalier universitaire Nantes, service
d'épidémiologie et de biostatistique, 85, rue Saint-Jacques, 44093 Nantes,
France. (13)Centre Léon-Bérard, unité de biostatistique et d'évaluation des
thérapeutiques/Direction de la recherche et de l'innovation, 28, rue Laënnec,
69373 Lyon cedex 08, France. (14)Hôpital Saint-Antoine, service de médecine
interne et oncologie médicale, 1, avenue Claude-Vellefaux, 75475 Paris cedex 10, 
France. (15)Centre Jean-Perrin, unité de recherche clinique, Clermont-Ferrand,
France. (16)Centre d'investigation de thérapeutiques en oncologie et hématologie 
de Lyon, chemin du Grand Revoyet, 69495 Pierre-Bénite, France. (17)Centre
Oscar-Lambret, unité de méthodologie et biostatistiques, 3, rue
Frédéric-Combemale, 59020 Lille, France. (18)Institut Curie, département de
biostatistique, Inserm U900, 25, rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France.

At the end of the dose escalation step of phase I trials in oncology, it is
increasingly frequent to include patients in expansion cohorts. However, the
objective of the expansion cohorts, the number of patients included and their
justification are insufficiently explained in the protocols. These cohorts are
sometimes of considerable size. The aim of this article is to outline the
methodology of expansion cohorts in order to provide recommendations for their
planning in practice. This work has been undertaken in collaboration with the
statisticians of the early phase investigation centers (CLIP(2)), supported by
INCA. First, we have outlined the recent articles published on the expansion
cohorts in phase I. We then proposed recommendations, in terms of objectives and 
number of patients to be included, to guide investigators and facilitate the use 
of these expansion cohorts in practice. Manji et al. have identified 149 phase I 
clinical trials using expansion cohorts in oncology with a review of the
literature between 2006 and 2011 (Manji et al., 2013). Objectives of the
expansion cohort were reported in 111 trials (74%). In these trials, safety was
the most reported objective (80% of trials), followed by efficacy (45%).
According to this review, the number of patients included in these cohorts was
insufficiently justified. This result was confirmed by the study of literature
that we conducted over the period 2011-2014. We propose to define the number of
patients to be included in expansion cohorts in terms of (1) their objectives,
(2) the statistical criteria and (3) the clinical context of the trial. The
toxicity study remains the primary objective to evaluate in the expansion phase. 
In some contexts, the activity study is considered as co-primary objective,
either for identifying preliminary signs of activity in studies like screening,
or for studying the activity when the target population is known. This study is
then considered as phase I/II, and experience plans of phase II can be adapted
for planning expansion cohorts. Recommendations for the size of expansion cohorts
are proposed. Despite the exploratory character of the expansion cohort, a
justification of their size based on assumptions statistically defined is
recommended in order to provide an interpretable conclusion and to quantify the
risk of errors.

Copyright © 2014 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25609488  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


776. Bull Cancer. 2015 Jan;102(1):83-91. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2014.10.002. Epub 2015 
Jan 9.

[Nanoparticles and radiation therapy.]

[Article in French]

Calugaru V(1), Magné N(2), Hérault J(3), Bonvalot S(4), Le Tourneau C(5), Thariat
J(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie, département d'oncologie radiothérapie, 26, rue d'Ulm, 75005
Paris, France. Electronic address: valentin.calugaru@curie.fr. (2)Institut de
cancérologie Lucien-Neuwirth, département de radiothérapie, 108 bis, avenue
Albert-Raimond, 42270 Saint-Priest-en-Jarez, France; Université Jean-Monnet,
faculté de médecine Jacques-Lisfranc, 15, rue Ambroise-Paré, 42100 Saint-Étienne,
France; Université de Lyon 1, faculté de médecine Lyon-Sud, laboratoire de
radiobiologie cellulaire et moléculaire, EMR3738, équipe 4, 165, chemin du
Petit-Revoyet, 69921 Oullins, France. (3)Centre Lacassagne, département
d'oncologie radiothérapie, Cyclotron médical, 33, avenue Valembrose, 06100 Nice, 
France. (4)Institut Gustave-Roussy, département de chirurgie, 144, rue
Edouard-Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif cedex, France. (5)Institut Curie, département
d'oncologie médicale, 26, rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France; Institut Curie, unité
Inserm U900, 33, rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France. (6)Centre Lacassagne,
département d'oncologie radiothérapie, Cyclotron médical, 33, avenue Valembrose, 
06100 Nice, France; Centre Lacassagne, département d'oncopharmacologie UE3836,
33, avenue Valembrose, 06100 Nice, France.

BACKGROUND: Nanoparticles have emerged in oncology as new therapeutic agents of
distinct biochemical and physical properties, and pharmacokinetics. Current
rationale and clinical applications in combination with radiation therapy were
analyzed.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A review of the literature was conducted on nanoparticles
as radiosensitizers, with a focus on metallic nanoparticles and
radiosensitization mechanisms.
RESULTS: Nanoparticles are mainly used as vectors for drugs or to potentiate dose
deposit selectively in irradiated tissues. Preclinical data suggest a
predominating effect in the kilovoltage range through a photoelectric effect and 
a potential in the megavoltage range under a combination of physical and
biochemical (diameter, concentration, site of infusion etc) conditions. Several
clinical trials are ongoing with metallic/crystalline nanoparticles.
CONCLUSION: Nanoparticles have shown a potential for better therapeutic index
with radiation therapy, which is being increasingly investigated clinically.

Copyright © 2014 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25609487  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


777. Bull Cancer. 2015 Jan;102(1):92-104. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2014.11.002. Epub 2015
Jan 9.

[Major advances in oncology in 2014: The editorial board of the Bulletin du
Cancer point of view.]

[Article in French]

Massard C(1), Bay JO(2), André T(3), Blay JY(4), Goncalves A(5), Orbach D(6),
Wislez M(7), Thariat J(8), Magné N(9), Vignot S(10).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Gustave-Roussy, département d'innovations thérapeutiques et d'essais 
précoces, 94805 Villejuif, France. Electronic address:
christophe.massard@gustaveroussy.fr. (2)CHU Estaing, centre Jean-Perrin, service 
d'hématologie, département de médecine oncologique, 63000 Clermont-Ferrand,
France. (3)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, hôpital Saint-Antoine, service 
d'oncologie médicale, 75012 Paris, France. (4)Centre Léon-Bérard, département
d'oncologie médicale, 69000 Lyon, France. (5)Institut Paoli-Calmettes,
département d'oncologie médicale, 13000 Marseille, France. (6)Institut Curie,
département d'oncologie pédiatrique-adolescents-jeunes adultes, 75005 Paris,
France. (7)Hôpital Tenon, service de pneumologie et de réanimation, 75020 Paris, 
France. (8)Centre Antoine-Lacassagne, département de radiothérapie, 06000 Nice,
France. (9)Institut de cancérologie Lucien-Neuwirth, département de
radiothérapie, 108 bis, avenue Albert-Raimond, BP 60008, 42271
Saint-Priest-en-Jarez cedex, France. (10)Service oncologie hématologie, hôpitaux 
de Chartres, site Louis-Pasteur, 28630 Chartres Le Coudray, France.

Results of many clinical trials are presented each year during the American
Society of Clinical Oncology meeting, ESMO meeting and other international major 
meetings. This article is proposed by the editorial board of the Bulletin du
Cancer as a synthesis of new important results in clinical trials concerning
cancer patients treated for hematology cancer or solid tumors. The goal of this
review is to highlight the main results that may have an immediate impact on our 
clinical practices for physicians and patients.

Copyright © 2014 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
All rights reserved.

PMID: 25609486  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


778. Cancer Manag Res. 2015 Jan 23;7:51-63. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S72814. eCollection
2015.

New and emerging therapeutic options for malignant pleural mesothelioma: review
of early clinical trials.

Kotova S(1), Wong RM(2), Cameron RB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, Division of Thoracic
Surgery, Los Angeles, CA, USA ; UCLA Division of Thoracic Surgery and
Comprehensive Mesothelioma Program, Los Angeles, CA, USA. (2)Veterans Affairs
Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, Division of Thoracic Surgery, Los Angeles,
CA, USA ; UCLA Division of Thoracic Surgery and Comprehensive Mesothelioma
Program, Los Angeles, CA, USA ; Pacific Meso Center at the Pacific Heart, Lung
and Blood Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare tumor that is challenging to
control. Despite some benefit from using the multimodality-approach (surgery,
combination chemotherapy and radiation), survival remains poor. However, current 
research produced a list of potential therapies. Here, we summarize significant
new preclinical and early clinical developments in treatment of MPM, which
include mesothelin specific antibody and toxin therapies, interleukin-4 (IL-4)
receptor toxins, dendritic cell vaccines, immune checkpoint inhibitors, and
gene-based therapies. In addition, several local modalities such as photodynamic 
therapy, postoperative lavage using betadine, and cryotherapy for local
recurrence, have also shown to be effective for local control of disease.

PMID: 25670913  [PubMed]


779. Chin Med J (Engl). 2015;128(4):443-9. doi: 10.4103/0366-6999.151069.

Efficacy and Safety of Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F Versus Acitretin in Moderate
to Severe Psoriasis Vulgaris: A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Wu C, Jin HZ(1), Shu D, Li F, He CX, Qiao J, Yu XL, Zhang Y, He YB, Liu TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100730,
China.

BACKGROUND: Few clinical trials have evaluated the efficacy and safety of
Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TwHF) compared with acitretin in psoriasis. We
aimed to compare the efficacy and safety of TwHF compared with acitretin in the
treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis vulgaris.
METHODS: Adults with Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI) score ≥ 10 and
psoriasis-affected body surface area ≥ 10% were randomized into a TwHF (20 mg, 3 
times a day) or acitretin group (30 mg, once a day). The treatment course lasted 
for 8 weeks. Patients were assessed at baseline and at 2, 4, and 8 weeks.
Laboratory tests were performed at baseline, week 4, and week 8. The data were
analyzed using paired samples t-test or analysis of variance (ANOVA).
RESULTS: A total of 115 patients was enrolled (58 TwHF; 57 acitretin). The median
PASI score improved in the TwHF group by 50.4% and in the acitretin group by
42.7%. There was no significant difference in median PASI improvement between two
groups at 2, 4, and 8 weeks. There was also no significant difference in PASI 25,
PASI 50, PASI 75, and PASI 90 response between the two groups at 2, 4, and 8
weeks. There was a significant increase in the level of aspartate transaminase
and triglycerides in the TwHF group (P = 0.026 and P = 0.011, respectively). In
the acitretin group, there was a significant increase in the level of alanine
transaminase, cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (P = 0.030, P < 0.01, and
P < 0.01, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in treatment efficacy between
the TwHF and acitretin groups within 8 weeks, but there were fewer
treatment-related adverse events in the TwHF group.

PMID: 25673443  [PubMed - in process]


780. Chin Med J (Engl). 2015;128(4):433-7. doi: 10.4103/0366-6999.151061.

Relative Bioavailability of Rifampicin in Four Chinese Fixed-dose Combinations
Compared with Rifampicin in Free Combinations.

Zhu H, Guo SC, Hao LH, Liu CC, Wang B, Fu L, Chen MT, Zhou L, Chi JY, Yang W, Nie
WJ, Lu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Beijing Key Laboratory of Drug Resistance
Tuberculosis Research, Beijing Chest Hospital, Capital Medical University,
Beijing Tuberculosis and Thoracic Tumour Research Institute, Beijing 101149,
China.

BACKGROUND: Decreases in the bioavailability of rifampicin (RFP) can lead to the 
development of drug resistance and treatment failure. Therefore, we investigated 
the relative bioavailability of RFP from one four-drug fixed-dose combination
(FDC; formulation A) and three two-drug FDCs (formulations B, C, and D) used in
China, compared with RFP in free combinations of these drugs (reference), in
healthy volunteers.
METHODS: Eighteen and twenty healthy Chinese male volunteers participated in two 
open-label, randomized two-period crossover (formulations A and C) or one
three-period crossover (formulations B and D) study, respectively. The washout
period between treatments was 7 days. Bioequivalence was assessed based on 90%
confidence intervals, according to two one-sided t-tests. All analyses were done 
with DAS 3.1.5 (Mathematical Pharmacology Professional Committee of China,
Shanghai, China).
RESULTS: Mean pharmacokinetic parameter values of RFP obtained for formulations
A, B, C, and D products were 11.42 ± 3.41 μg/ml, 7.86 ± 5.78 μg/ml, 13.05 ± 6.80 
μg/ml, and 16.18 ± 3.87 μg/ml, respectively, for peak plasma concentration (C max
), 91.43 ± 30.82 μg·h-1·ml-1 , 55.49 ± 37.58 μg·h-1·ml-1 , 96.50 ± 47.24
μg·h-1·ml-1 , 101.47 ± 33.07 μg·h-1·ml-1 , respectively, for area under the
concentration-time curve (AUC 0-24 h ).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the concentrations of RFP for formulations A, C, and D were
within the reported acceptable therapeutic range, only formulation A was
bioequivalent to the reference product. The three two-drug FDCs (formulations B, 
C and D) displayed inferior RFP bioavailability compared with the reference
(Chinese Clinical Trials registration number: ChiCTR-TTRCC-12002451).

PMID: 25673441  [PubMed - in process]


781. Clin Calcium. 2015;25(2):263-73. doi: CliCa1502263273.

[Cognitive Function and Calcium. Suppression of neurotoxicity by an anti-dementia
drug managing calcium influx].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamura Y(1), Yoshiyama Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Kagawa University School of Medicine, Japan.

Although drugs affecting N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are being largely 
expected for anti-dementia drugs, memantine has been solely approved. As
memantine has moderate affinity to NMDA receptors, memantine display efficacy of 
neuro-protection and learning promotion. In clinical trials, memantine showed
suppression of progression of symptoms with dementia including improvement and
suppression of aggressiveness and behavioral disturbance. Moreover, memantine can
be prescribed with choline esterase inhibitors, thus, memantine is used as one of
major anti-dementia drugs.

PMID: 25634052  [PubMed - in process]


782. Clin Calcium. 2015;25(2):255-62. doi: CliCa1502255262.

[Cognitive Function and Calcium. Hypertension treatment in consideration of
dementia].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishihira J(1), Tokashiki T, Ohya Y.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Cardiovascular Medicine, Nephrology and Neurology, University of the 
Ryukyus, Okinawa, Japan.

Dementia, which dramatically increased in recent years is one of the most
important issues in the modern society. Solutions for prevention and management
of dementia have not been established. Since hypertension status in middle-age
period is known as a risk for the future development of dementia,
antihypertensive treatment during such period is important. On the contrary, the 
influence on the dementia development of hypertension during old-age period has
not been clarified yet. Since some reports showed that the antihypertensive
treatment prevented the development of dementia, the proper antihypertensive
treatment would be considered. It is still unknown that of which kind of
antihypertensive drug is most effective for preventing dementia, since clinical
trials have not been performed on such hypothesis to be solved. Recent report on 
the network meta-analysis showed that angiotensin receptor blockers were most
effective. Future study should be done for develop the evidence for preventing
dementia as a primary endpoint.

PMID: 25634051  [PubMed - in process]


783. Clin Interv Aging. 2015 Jan 14;10:255-264.

Stem cell therapies for age-related macular degeneration: the past, present, and 
future.

Dang Y(1), Zhang C(2), Zhu Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing,
People's Republic of China ; Clinical Stem Cell Research Center, Peking
University Third Hospital, Beijing, People's Republic of China ; Department of
Ophthalmology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, 
Henan, People's Republic of China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Peking
University Third Hospital, Beijing, People's Republic of China ; Clinical Stem
Cell Research Center, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, People's
Republic of China. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, the First Affiliated Hospital 
of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan, People's Republic of China.

In the developed world, age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is one of the
major causes of irreversible blindness in the elderly. Although management of
neovascular AMD (wet AMD) has dramatically progressed, there is still no
effective treatment for nonneovascular AMD (dry AMD), which is characterized by
retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell death (or dysfunction) and
microenvironmental disruption in the retina. Therefore, RPE replacement and
microenvironmental regulation represent viable treatments for dry AMD. Recent
advances in cell biology have demonstrated that RPE cells can be easily generated
from several cell types (pluripotent stem cells, multipotent stem cells, or even 
somatic cells) by spontaneous differentiation, coculturing, defined factors or
cell reprogramming, respectively. Additionally, in vivo studies also showed that 
the restoration of visual function could be obtained by transplanting functional 
RPE cells into the subretinal space of recipient. More importantly, clinical
trials approved by the US government have shown promising prospects in RPE
transplantation. However, key issues such as implantation techniques, immune
rejection, and xeno-free techniques are still needed to be further investigated. 
This review will summarize recent advances in cell transplantation for dry AMD.
The obstacles and prospects in this field will also be discussed.

PMCID: PMC4298283
PMID: 25609937  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


784. Cost Eff Resour Alloc. 2015 Jan 10;13(1):1. doi: 10.1186/s12962-014-0028-2.
eCollection 2015.

Cost-effectiveness and affordability of community mobilisation through women's
groups and quality improvement in health facilities (MaiKhanda trial) in Malawi.

Colbourn T(1), Pulkki-Brännström AM(2), Nambiar B(1), Kim S(1), Bondo A(3), Banda
L(3), Makwenda C(3), Batura N(1), Haghparast-Bidgoli H(1), Hunter R(4), Costello 
A(1), Baio G(5), Skordis-Worrall J(1).

Author information: 
(1)UCL Institute for Global Health, 30 Guilford Street, London, WC1N 1EH UK.
(2)UCL Institute for Global Health, 30 Guilford Street, London, WC1N 1EH UK ;
Epidemiology and Global Health, Umeå University, 901 87 Umeå, Sweden. (3)Parent
and Child Health Initiative (PACHI), Amina House, Western Wing - Second Floor,
Capital City, P.O. Box 31686, Lilongwe 3, Malawi. (4)Research Department of
Primary Care & Population Health, UCL Priment Clinical Trials Unit, Royal Free
Campus, London, NW3 2PF UK. (5)Department of Statistical Science, University
College London, 1-19 Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT UK.

BACKGROUND: Understanding the cost-effectiveness and affordability of
interventions to reduce maternal and newborn deaths is critical to persuading
policymakers and donors to implement at scale. The effectiveness of community
mobilisation through women's groups and health facility quality improvement, both
aiming to reduce maternal and neonatal mortality, was assessed by a cluster
randomised controlled trial conducted in rural Malawi in 2008-2010. In this
paper, we calculate intervention cost-effectiveness and model the affordability
of the interventions at scale.
METHODS: Bayesian methods are used to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness
of the community and facility interventions on their own (CI, FI), and together
(FICI), compared to current practice in rural Malawi. Effects are estimated with 
Monte Carlo simulation using the combined full probability distributions of
intervention effects on stillbirths, neonatal deaths and maternal deaths. Cost
data was collected prospectively from a provider perspective using an ingredients
approach and disaggregated at the intervention (not cluster or individual) level.
Expected Incremental Benefit, Cost-effectiveness Acceptability Curves and
Expected Value of Information (EVI) were calculated using a threshold of $780 per
disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) averted, the per capita gross domestic
product of Malawi in 2013 international $.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness of CI, FI, and combined FICI was $79,
$281, and $146 per DALY averted respectively, compared to current practice. FI is
dominated by CI and FICI. Taking into account uncertainty, both CI and combined
FICI are highly likely to be cost effective (probability 98% and 93%, EVI
$210,423 and $598,177 respectively). Combined FICI is incrementally cost
effective compared to either intervention individually (probability 60%, ICER
$292, EIB $9,334,580 compared to CI). Future scenarios also found FICI to be the 
optimal decision. Scaling-up to the whole of Malawi, CI is of greatest value for 
money, potentially averting 13.0% of remaining annual DALYs from stillbirths,
neonatal and maternal deaths for the equivalent of 6.8% of current annual
expenditure on maternal and neonatal health in Malawi.
CONCLUSIONS: Community mobilisation through women's groups is a highly
cost-effective and affordable strategy to reduce maternal and neonatal mortality 
in Malawi. Combining community mobilisation with health facility quality
improvement is more effective, more costly, but also highly cost-effective and
potentially affordable in this context.

PMCID: PMC4299571
PMID: 25649323  [PubMed]


785. Curr Mol Med. 2015;15(1):82-93.

Targeting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR Signaling Pathway in Medulloblastoma.

Dimitrova V, Arcaro A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Research, Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology,
University of Bern, Murtenstrasse 31, CH-3010 Bern, Switzerland.
alexandre.arcaro@dkf.unibe.ch.

Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant childhood brain tumor and is
associated with a poor outcome. There is an urgent need to develop novel targeted
therapeutic approaches for medulloblastoma, which will arise from an enhanced
understanding of the disease at the molecular level. Medulloblastoma has been
recognized to be a heterogeneous disease, and no recurrent cancer gene mutations 
have been found, although many of the mutations described so far affect key
intracellular signaling pathways, such as sonic hedgehog (SHH) and Wnt/β-catenin.
The PI3K/AKT/mTOR (PAM) signaling pathway controls key cellular responses, such
as cell growth and proliferation, survival, migration and metabolism. Over the
last decades, it has been recognized that this intracellular signaling pathway is
frequently activated by genetic and epigenetic alterations in malignant brain
tumors, including medulloblastoma. Clinical trials have started to evaluate the
safety and efficacy of agents targeting this pathway in malignant brain tumors.
Due to the complexity of the PAM signaling pathway, there remain significant
difficulties in the development of novel therapeutic approaches. The future
challenges in developing effective treatments for cancer patients include the
development of predictive biomarkers and combinatorial approaches to effectively 
target multiple signal transduction pathways. In this review article, we will
summarize the current knowledge about the role of PAM signaling in
medulloblastoma and discuss the strategies that are currently being evaluated
with targeted agents against this pathway.

PMID: 25601471  [PubMed - in process]


786. Curr Oral Health Rep. 2015;2:20-29.

The Link Between Periodontitis and Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Periodontist's
Perspective.

Payne JB(1), Golub LM(2), Thiele GM(3), Mikuls TR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical Specialties, Division of Periodontics, College of
Dentistry, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Lincoln, NE USA ; Department of
Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center,
Omaha, NE USA ; Department of Surgical Specialties, College of Dentistry,
University of Nebraska Medical Center, 40th & Holdrege, Lincoln, NE 68583 USA.
(2)Department of Oral Biology and Pathology, School of Dental Medicine, Stony
Brook University, Stony Brook, New York 11794-8700 USA. (3)Omaha Veterans Affairs
Medical Center (VAMC) and Nebraska Arthritis Outcomes Research Center, Division
of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, University
of Nebraska Medical Center, 983025 Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198-3025 
USA.

In this review, we critically evaluate the case-control studies examining the
relationship between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and periodontitis, two common
chronic inflammatory diseases with a similar host-mediated pathogenesis. We
review the "two-hit" periodontitis model that our group previously proposed, in
which we elucidate how a systemic disease such as RA can potentially exacerbate
or initiate periodontitis. Furthermore, we discuss adjunctive host modulation
therapy, originally developed for periodontitis (i.e., subantimicrobial-dose
doxycycline alone or in combination with an anti-inflammatory agent), to
simultaneously mitigate RA and periodontitis. Finally, we review studies
describing periodontal treatment effects on both RA disease activity measures and
systemic inflammation. Current evidence suggests that an association exists
between periodontitis and RA. Well-designed multicenter longitudinal clinical
trials and studies with sufficient sample sizes are needed to ascertain the
temporal relationship between these two diseases and whether periodontal
treatment can reduce the severity of RA or prevent its onset.

PMCID: PMC4312393
PMID: 25657894  [PubMed]


787. Discov Med. 2015 Jan;19(102):49-57.

Viral expression cassette elements to enhance transgene target specificity and
expression in gene therapy.

Powell SK(1), Rivera-Soto R(1), Gray SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gene Therapy Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill,
NC 27599, USA. (2)Gene Therapy Center and Department of Ophthalmology, University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.

Over the last five years, the number of clinical trials involving AAV
(adeno-associated virus) and lentiviral vectors continue to increase by about 150
trials each year. For continued success, AAV and lentiviral expression cassettes 
need to be designed to meet each disease's specific needs. This review discusses 
how viral vector expression cassettes can be engineered with elements to enhance 
target specificity and increase transgene expression. The key differences
relating to target specificity between ubiquitous and tissue-specific promoters
are discussed, as well as how endogenous miRNAs and their target sequences have
been used to restrict transgene expression. Specifically, relevant studies
indicating how cis-acting elements such as introns, WPRE, polyadenylation
signals, and the CMV enhancer are highlighted to show their utility for enhancing
transgene expression in gene therapy applications. All discussion bears in mind
that expression cassettes have space constraints. In conclusion, this review can 
serve as a menu of vector genome design elements and their cost in terms of space
to thoughtfully engineer viral vectors for gene therapy.

PMID: 25636961  [PubMed - in process]


788. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015 Jan 7;9:333-347.

Current and emerging treatment options for ANCA-associated vasculitis: potential 
role of belimumab and other BAFF/APRIL targeting agents.

Lenert A(1), Lenert P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, University of Kentucky, Kentucky Clinic, Lexington, 
KY, USA. (2)Division of Immunology, Department of Internal Medicine, The
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.

Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV) comprises 
several clinical entities with diverse clinical presentations, outcomes, and
nonunifying pathogenesis. AAV has a clear potential for relapses, and shows
unpredictable response to treatment. Cyclophosphamide-based therapies have
remained the hallmark of induction therapy protocols for more than four decades. 
Recently, B-cell depleting therapy with the anti-CD20 antibody rituximab has
proved beneficial in AAV, leading to Food and Drug Administration approval of
rituximab in combination with corticosteroids for the treatment of AAV in adults.
Rituximab for ANCA-associated vasculitis and other clinical trials provided clear
evidence that rituximab was not inferior to cyclophosphamide for remission
induction, and rituximab appeared even more beneficial in patients with relapsing
disease. This raised hopes that other B-cell-targeted therapies directed either
against CD19, CD20, CD22, or B-cell survival factors, B-cell activating factor of
the tumor necrosis factor family (BAFF) and a proliferation-inducing ligand could
also be beneficial for the management of AAV. BAFF neutralization with the fully 
humanized monoclonal antibody belimumab has already shown success in human
systemic lupus erythematosus and, along with another anti-BAFF reagent
blisibimod, is currently undergoing Phase II and III clinical trials in AAV.
Local production of BAFF in granulomatous lesions and elevated levels of serum
BAFF in AAV provide a rationale for BAFF-targeted therapies not only in AAV but
also in other forms of vasculitis such as Behcet's disease, large-vessel
vasculitis, or cryoglobulinemic vasculitis secondary to chronic hepatitis C
infection. BAFF-targeted therapies have a very solid safety profile, and may have
an additional benefit of preferentially targeting newly arising autoreactive B
cells over non-self-reactive B cells.

PMCID: PMC4294650
PMID: 25609919  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


789. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015 Jan 7;9:305-312.

Sample sizes in dosage investigational clinical trials: a systematic evaluation.

Huang JH(1), Su QM(2), Yang J(1), Lv YH(1), He YC(1), Chen JC(1), Xu L(1), Wang
K(1), Zheng QS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Drug Clinical Research, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of China. (2)Department of Computer,
College of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai University of
Engineering Science, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

The main purpose of investigational phase II clinical trials is to explore
indications and effective doses. However, as yet, there is no clear rule and no
related published literature about the precise suitable sample sizes to be used
in phase II clinical trials. To explore this, we searched for clinical trials in 
the ClinicalTrials.gov registry using the keywords "dose-finding" or
"dose-response" and "Phase II". The time span of the search was September 20,
1999, to December 31, 2013. A total of 2103 clinical trials were finally included
in our review. Regarding sample sizes, 1,156 clinical trials had <40 participants
in each group, accounting for 55.0% of the studies reviewed, and only 17.2% of
the studies reviewed had >100 patient cases in a single group. Sample sizes used 
in parallel study designs tended to be larger than those of crossover designs
(median sample size 151 and 37, respectively). In conclusion, in the earlier
phases of drug research and development, there are a variety of designs for
dosage investigational studies. The sample size of each trial should be
comprehensively considered and selected according to the study design and
purpose.

PMCID: PMC4294651
PMID: 25609916  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


790. Front Oncol. 2015 Jan 28;5:2. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2015.00002. eCollection 2015.

The Potential of panHER Inhibition in Cancer.

Wang X(1), Batty KM(1), Crowe PJ(1), Goldstein D(2), Yang JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sarcoma Nano-Oncology Group, Adult Cancer Program, Lowy Cancer Research
Centre, Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of New South Wales (UNSW) ,
Sydney, NSW , Australia ; Department of Surgery, Prince of Wales Clinical School,
University of New South Wales (UNSW) , Sydney, NSW , Australia. (2)Sarcoma
Nano-Oncology Group, Adult Cancer Program, Lowy Cancer Research Centre, Prince of
Wales Clinical School, University of New South Wales (UNSW) , Sydney, NSW ,
Australia ; Department of Medical Oncology, Prince of Wales Clinical School,
University of New South Wales (UNSW) , Sydney, NSW , Australia.

PURPOSE: Hyper-activation of the HER (erbB) family receptors, HER 1-4, leads to
up-regulation of the three vital signaling pathways: mitogen activated protein
kinase, phosphoinositide 3-kinase/AKT, and Janus kinase/signal transducer and
activator of transcription pathways. Blocking HER1/EGFR has a limited anticancer 
effect due to either secondary mutation e.g., T790M or by-pass signaling of other
HER members. The emergence of an anti-panHER approach to blockade of these
pathways as a cancer treatment may provide a solution to this resistance. This
review aimed to provide an overview of the HER signaling pathways and their
involvement in tumor progression and examine the current progress in panHER
inhibition.
METHODS: Recent literature associated with HER signaling pathways and panHER
inhibition was reviewed through PubMed and Medline database, followed by critical
comparison and analysis.
RESULTS: Pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of panHER inhibitors show
promising results, and the potential to improve patient outcomes in solid
cancers.
CONCLUSION:  The use of panHER inhibitors in cancers with HER-family
hyper-activation, such as other epithelial cancers and sarcoma, is a new
direction to research and has potential in clinical cancer therapy in the future.

PMID: 25674538  [PubMed]


791. Future Cardiol. 2015 Jan;11(1):45-60. doi: 10.2217/fca.14.77.

Vascular injury and repair: a potential target for cell therapies.

Mitchell A(1), Fujisawa T, Newby D, Mills N, Cruden NL.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Chancellor's
Building, 49 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh, EH16 4SB, UK.

ABSTRACT  Whether due to atherosclerotic disease or mechanical intervention,
vascular injury is a frequently encountered pathology in cardiovascular medicine.
The past decade has seen growing interest in the role of circulating endothelial 
progenitor cells in vessel recovery postinjury. Despite this, the definition,
origin and potential role of endothelial progenitor cells in vascular
regeneration remains highly controversial. While animal work has shown early
promise, evidence of a therapeutic role for endothelial progenitor cells in
humans remains elusive. To date, clinical trials involving direct cell
administration, growth factor therapy and endothelial cell capture stents have
largely been disappointing, although this may in part reflect limitations in
study design. This article will outline the pathophysiological mechanisms of
vascular injury with an emphasis on endothelial progenitor cell biology and the
potential therapeutic role of this exciting new field.

PMID: 25606702  [PubMed - in process]


792. Future Cardiol. 2015 Jan;11(1):13-5. doi: 10.2217/fca.14.75.

ATLANTIC and beyond: an interview with Professor Azfar Zaman.

Zaman A.

Professor Azfar Zaman speaks to Wing Wu, Commissioning Editor: Professor Azfar
Zaman is a Consultant Interventional Cardiologist at Freeman Hospital and
Professor of Cardiology at Newcastle University. Following graduation at Leeds
Medical School, he completed postgraduate training in cardiology at regional
centres in Leeds, London and Cardiff. Prior to his appointment in Newcastle upon 
Tyne, he was a Fulbright Scholar and British Heart Foundation International
Fellow at Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, USA. He is the Clinical Lead for 
Coronary Intervention and Director of the Cardiac Catheter Laboratories. In 2012,
he was appointed Specialty Group Lead for Cardiovascular Research and has an
interest in clinical research, with a particular interest in atherothrombosis in 
diabetes and clinical trials.

PMID: 25606697  [PubMed - in process]


793. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2015 Jan;42(1):16-20.

[Activity of the JCOG Geriatric Study Committee and Chemotherapy of Colorectal
Cancer in Older Patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Nagashima F(1), Hamaguchi T, Furuse J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Medical Oncology, Kyorin University School of Medicine.

Japan Clinical Oncology Group(JCOG)is a largest cooperative group in Japan,
funded by the ministry of health, labor and welfare of Japanese government. We
just established the Geriatric Study Committee in December 2013. The goal ofthis 
committee is to make a policy to promote clinical trials for older patients with 
3 major tasks: (1)Create a clear and operational definition of
vulnerability/frailty applicable to oncology,(2)Develop, test and disseminate
geriatric assessments,(3) Improve research in the field of geriatric oncology, in
collaboration with SIOG. JCOG1018 is a randomized phase III study of mFOLFOX7 or 
CAPOX plus bevacizumab versus 5-fluorouracil/Leucovorin or capecitabine plus
bevacizumab as first-line treatment in elderly patients with metastatic
colorectal cancer. This study includes geriatric assessments(VES-13)before
chemotherapy.

PMID: 25596676  [PubMed - in process]


794. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2015 Jan;42(1):6-11.

[Treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer in elderly patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Miyauchi E(1), Inoue A.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Respiratory Medicine, Tohoku University Hospital.

Japan has the highest percentage of elderly population in the world;
consequently, Japan has an aging society that is not observed in other countries.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths in Japan. Consequently, it has 
become increasingly important to establish an effective treatment regimen for
elderly patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Standard
first-line chemotherapy for younger patients with stage IV NSCLC includes
platinum-combination therapy. However, two standard options are available for
elderly patients with advanced NSCLC. The first is single agent chemotherapy, and
the second is doublet chemotherapy. Treatment options should be tailored for
elderly patients based on the comprehensive evaluation and the evidence from
clinical trials for. This article reviews the available data on radiation therapy
and systemic chemotherapy for elderly patients with NSCLC, and assesses the role 
of comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA)in the evaluation of elderly patients.

PMID: 25596674  [PubMed - in process]


795. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2015 Jan;42(1):1-5.

[Efficacy of TAS-102].

[Article in Japanese]

Kotani D(1), Fukuoka S, Yoshino T.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Gastroenterology and Gastrointestinal Oncology, National Cancer
Center Hospital East.

Of late, there has been rapid development of chemotherapeutic agents for treating
metastatic colorectal cancers. However, the so-called "druglag" is a
long-standingproblem; it refers to the drugapproval delays in Japan that occur
after drugs have been developed and approved in Europe and the USA. Clinical
trials for the drugTAS -102 were stopped in the USA, but the drugwas evaluated in
phase I and II clinical trials in Japan. The Phase II trial for TAS-102 in Japan 
provided positive results, and it received approval in Japan first, ahead of the 
world. Data from the global phase III RECOURSE trial were presented in the
ESMO-GI 2014, where the efficacy of TAS-102 was proved again. Herein, we present 
data about the efficacy and side effects of TAS-102 from each clinical trial.

PMID: 25596673  [PubMed - in process]


796. Genome Med. 2015 Jan 31;7(1):10. doi: 10.1186/s13073-014-0124-0. eCollection
2015.

Associations between self-referral and health behavior responses to genetic risk 
information.

Christensen KD(1), Roberts JS(2), Zikmund-Fisher BJ(2), Kardia SL(3), McBride
CM(4), Linnenbringer E(5), Green RC(6); REVEAL Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School,
EC Alumnae Building, Suite 301, 41 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, MA 02115 USA.
(2)Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, University of Michigan
School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA. (3)Department of Epidemiology, 
University of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA.
(4)Department of Behavioral Sciences and Health Education, Rollins School of
Public Health, Atlanta, GA 30322 USA. (5)Division of Public Health Sciences,
Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO
63110 USA. (6)Division of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital/Harvard Medical 
School/Partners Personalized Medicine, Boston, MA 02115 USA.

BACKGROUND: Studies examining whether genetic risk information about common,
complex diseases can motivate individuals to improve health behaviors and advance
planning have shown mixed results. Examining the influence of different study
recruitment strategies may help reconcile inconsistencies.
METHODS: Secondary analyses were conducted on data from the REVEAL study, a
series of randomized clinical trials examining the impact of genetic
susceptibility testing for Alzheimer's disease (AD). We tested whether
self-referred participants (SRPs) were more likely than actively recruited
participants (ARPs) to report health behavior and advance planning changes after 
AD risk and APOE genotype disclosure.
RESULTS: Of 795 participants with known recruitment status, 546 (69%) were
self-referred and 249 (31%) had been actively recruited. SRPs were younger, less 
likely to identify as African American, had higher household incomes, and were
more attentive to AD than ARPs (all P < 0.01). They also dropped out of the study
before genetic risk disclosure less frequently (26% versus 41%, P < 0.001).
Cohorts did not differ in their likelihood of reporting a change to at least one 
health behavior 6 weeks and 12 months after genetic risk disclosure, nor in
intentions to change at least one behavior in the future. However, interaction
effects were observed where ε4-positive SRPs were more likely than ε4-negative
SRPs to report changes specifically to mental activities (38% vs 19%, p < 0.001) 
and diets (21% vs 12%, p = 0.016) six weeks post-disclosure, whereas differences 
between ε4-positive and ε4-negative ARPs were not evident for mental activities
(15% vs 21%, p = 0.413) or diets (8% versus 16%, P = 0.190). Similarly,
ε4-positive participants were more likely than ε4-negative participants to report
intentions to change long-term care insurance among SRPs (20% vs 5%, p < 0.001), 
but not ARPs (5% versus 9%, P = 0.365).
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals who proactively seek AD genetic risk assessment are more
likely to undergo testing and use results to inform behavior changes than those
who respond to genetic testing offers. These results demonstrate how the
behavioral impact of genetic risk information may vary according to the models by
which services are provided, and suggest that how participants are recruited into
translational genomics research can influence findings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00089882 and NCT00462917.

PMCID: PMC4311425
PMID: 25642295  [PubMed]


797. Genome Med. 2015 Jan 29;7(1):9. doi: 10.1186/s13073-015-0134-6. eCollection 2015.

TET proteins and the control of cytosine demethylation in cancer.

Scourzic L(1), Mouly E(1), Bernard OA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM), Unité
1170, équipe labellisée Ligue Contre le Cancer, 94805 Villejuif, France ;
Institut Gustave Roussy, 94805 Villejuif, France ; University Paris 11 Sud, 91405
Orsay, France.

The discovery that ten-eleven translocation (TET) proteins are
α-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases involved in the conversion of
5-methylcytosines (5-mC) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmC), 5-formylcytosine and
5-carboxycytosine has revealed new pathways in the cytosine methylation and
demethylation process. The description of inactivating mutations in TET2 suggests
that cellular transformation is in part caused by the deregulation of this 5-mC
conversion. The direct and indirect deregulation of methylation control through
mutations in DNA methyltransferase and isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) genes,
respectively, along with the importance of cytosine methylation in the control of
normal and malignant cellular differentiation have provided a conceptual
framework for understanding the early steps in cancer development. Here, we
review recent advances in our understanding of the cytosine methylation cycle and
its implication in cellular transformation, with an emphasis on TET enzymes and
5-hmC. Ongoing clinical trials targeting the activity of mutated IDH enzymes
provide a proof of principle that DNA methylation is targetable, and will trigger
further therapeutic applications aimed at controlling both early and late stages 
of cancer development.

PMCID: PMC4308928
PMID: 25632305  [PubMed]


798. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Jan;19(8):1-134. doi: 10.3310/hta19080.

What is the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of conservative
interventions for tendinopathy? An overview of systematic reviews of clinical
effectiveness and systematic review of economic evaluations.

Long L(1), Briscoe S(1), Cooper C(1), Hyde C(1), Crathorne L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), Evidence Synthesis and
Modelling for Health Improvement (ESMI), University of Exeter Medical School,
Exeter, UK.

BACKGROUND: Lateral elbow tendinopathy (LET) is a common complaint causing
characteristic pain in the lateral elbow and upper forearm, and tenderness of the
forearm extensor muscles. It is thought to be an overuse injury and can have a
major impact on the patient's social and professional life. The condition is
challenging to treat and prone to recurrent episodes. The average duration of a
typical episode ranges from 6 to 24 months, with most (89%) reporting recovery by
1 year.
OBJECTIVES: This systematic review aims to summarise the evidence concerning the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of conservative interventions for
LET.
DATA SOURCES: A comprehensive search was conducted from database inception to
2012 in a range of databases including MEDLINE, EMBASE and Cochrane Databases.
METHODS AND OUTCOMES: We conducted an overview of systematic reviews to summarise
the current evidence concerning the clinical effectiveness and a systematic
review for the cost-effectiveness of conservative interventions for LET. We
identified additional randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that could contribute
further evidence to existing systematic reviews. We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE,
Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, Cumulative Index to Nursing and
Allied Health Literature, Web of Science, The Cochrane Library and other
important databases from inception to January 2013.
RESULTS: A total of 29 systematic reviews published since 2003 matched our
inclusion criteria. These were quality appraised using the Assessment of Multiple
Systematic Reviews (AMSTAR) checklist; five were considered high quality and
evaluated using a Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and
Evaluation approach. A total of 36 RCTs were identified that were not included in
a systematic review and 29 RCTs were identified that had only been evaluated in
an included systematic review of intermediate/low quality. These were then mapped
to existing systematic reviews where further evidence could provide updates. Two 
economic evaluations were identified.
LIMITATIONS: The summary of findings from the review was based only on
high-quality evidence (scoring of > 5 AMSTAR). Other limitations were that
identified RCTs were not quality appraised and dichotomous outcomes were also not
considered. Economic evaluations took effectiveness estimates from trials that
had small sample sizes leading to uncertainty surrounding the effect sizes
reported. This, in turn, led to uncertainty of the reported cost-effectiveness
and, as such, no robust recommendations could be made in this respect.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical effectiveness evidence from the high-quality systematic
reviews identified in this overview continues to suggest uncertainty as to the
effectiveness of many conservative interventions for the treatment of LET.
Although new RCT evidence has been identified with either placebo or active
controls, there is uncertainty as to the size of effects reported within them
because of the small sample size. Conclusions regarding cost-effectiveness are
also unclear. We consider that, although updated or new systematic reviews may
also be of value, the primary focus of future work should be on conducting
large-scale, good-quality clinical trials using a core set of outcome measures
(for defined time points) and appropriate follow-up. Subgroup analysis of
existing RCT data may be beneficial to ascertain whether or not certain patient
groups are more likely to respond to treatments.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42013003593.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

PMID: 25629427  [PubMed - in process]


799. Hered Cancer Clin Pract. 2015 Jan 17;13(1):4. doi: 10.1186/s13053-014-0024-8.
eCollection 2015.

PARP inhibitors.

Anwar M(1), Aslam HM(1), Anwar S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dow Medical College, Dow University of Health Sciences, Karachi, Pakistan.
(2)Final year student of Dow Medical College, Dow University of Health Sciences, 
Karachi, Pakistan.

Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases, abbreviated as PARPs, are a group of familiar
proteins that play a central role in DNA repair employing the base excision
repair (BER) pathway. There about 17 proteins in this family out of which the
primary nuclear PARPs are PARP-1, PARP-2, PARP-3, and tankyrases 1 and 2 (PARP-5a
and -5b) .The PARP family members are known to engage in a wide range of cellular
activities, for example, DNA repair, transcription, cellular signaling, cell
cycle regulation and mitosis amongst others. The chief functional units of PARP-1
are an amino terminal DNA binding domain (DBD), a central auto modification
domain (AMD), and a carboxyl-terminal catalytic domain (CD). PARP inhibitors are 
currently undergoing clinical trials as targeted treatment modalities of breast, 
uterine, colorectal and ovarian cancer. This review summarizes current insights
into the mechanism of action of PARP inhibitors, its recent clinical trials, and 
potential next steps in the evaluation of this promising class of anti-cancer
drugs.

PMCID: PMC4300021
PMID: 25606064  [PubMed]


800. Indian J Urol. 2015 Jan-Mar;31(1):8-14. doi: 10.4103/0970-1591.134232.

The full metallic double-pigtail ureteral stent: Review of the clinical outcome
and current status.

Kallidonis PS(1), Georgiopoulos IS(1), Kyriazis ID(1), Kontogiannis S(1), Al-Aown
AM(1), Liatsikos EN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, University of Patras, Rion, Patras, Greece.

The full metallic double-J ureteral stent (MS) was introduced as a method for
providing long-term drainage in malignant ureteral obstruction. Experimental
evaluation of the MS revealed that its mechanical features allow efficient
drainage in difficult cases, which could not be managed by the insertion of a
standard polymeric double-J stent. Clinical experience with the MS showed
controversial results. Careful patient selection results in efficient long-term
management of malignant ureteral obstruction. The use of the MS should also be
considered in selected benign cases. Major complications are uncommon and the
minor complications should not hinder its use. Experience in pediatric patients
is limited and warrants additional study. The cost-effectiveness of the MS seems 
to be appropriate for long-term treatment. Further investigation with comparative
clinical trials would document the outcome more extensively and establish the
indications as well as the selection criteria for the MS.

PMCID: PMC4300582
PMID: 25624569  [PubMed]


801. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2015 Jan 29;10:211-21. doi: 10.2147/COPD.S76061.
eCollection 2015.

Cardiovascular and inflammatory effects of simvastatin therapy in patients with
COPD: a randomized controlled trial.

John ME(1), Cockcroft JR(2), McKeever TM(3), Coward WR(1), Shale DJ(2), Johnson
SR(1), Thornton JG(4), Harrison TW(1), Knox AJ(1), Bolton CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nottingham Respiratory Research Unit, School of Medicine, University of
Nottingham, Nottingham, UK. (2)Wales Heart Research Institute, Cardiff
University, Cardiff, UK. (3)Division of Epidemiology and Public Health,
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK. (4)Clinical Trials Unit and Department 
of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, School of Medicine, University of Nottingham,
Nottingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: There is excess cardiovascular mortality in patients with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease. Aortic stiffness, an independent predictor of
cardiovascular risk, and systemic and airway inflammation are increased in
patients with the disease. Statins modulate aortic stiffness and have
anti-inflammatory properties. A proof-of-principle, double-blind, randomized
trial determined if 6 weeks of simvastatin 20 mg once daily reduced aortic
stiffness and systemic and airway inflammation in patients with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.
METHODS: Stable patients (n=70) were randomized to simvastatin (active) or
placebo. Pre-treatment and post-treatment aortic stiffness, blood pressure,
spirometry, and circulating and airway inflammatory mediators and lipids were
measured. A predefined subgroup analysis was performed where baseline aortic
pulse wave velocity (PWV) was >10 m/sec.
RESULTS: Total cholesterol dropped in the active group. There was no significant 
change in aortic PWV between the active group and the placebo group (-0.7 m/sec, 
P=0.24). In those with aortic stiffness >10 m/sec (n=22), aortic PWV improved in 
the active group compared with the placebo group (-2.8 m/sec, P=0.03). Neither
systemic nor airway inflammatory markers changed.
CONCLUSION: There was a nonsignificant improvement in aortic PWV in those taking 
simvastatin 20 mg compared with placebo, but in those with higher baseline aortic
stiffness (a higher risk group) a significant and clinically relevant reduction
in PWV was shown.

PMID: 25673981  [PubMed - in process]


802. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2015 Jan 27;10:201-9. doi: 10.2147/COPD.S69589. 
eCollection 2015.

A score to predict short-term risk of COPD exacerbations (SCOPEX).

Make BJ(1), Eriksson G(2), Calverley PM(3), Jenkins CR(4), Postma DS(5), Peterson
S(6), Östlund O(7), Anzueto A(8).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary Sciences and Critical Care Medicine, National Jewish
Health, University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine, Denver, CO, USA.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Allergology, University Hospital, Lund,
Sweden. (3)Pulmonary and Rehabilitation Research Group, University Hospital
Aintree, Liverpool, UK. (4)George Institute for Global Health, The University of 
Sydney and Concord Clinical School, Woolcock Institute of Medical Research,
Sydney, NSW, Australia. (5)Department of Pulmonology, University of Groningen and
GRIAC Research Institute, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The
Netherlands. (6)StatMind AB, Lund, Sweden. (7)Department of Medical Sciences and 
Uppsala Clinical Research Center, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(8)Department of Pulmonary/Critical Care, University of Texas Health Sciences
Center and South Texas Veterans Healthcare System, San Antonio, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: There is no clinically useful score to predict chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations. We aimed to derive this by analyzing data
from three existing COPD clinical trials of budesonide/formoterol, formoterol, or
placebo in patients with moderate-to-very-severe COPD and a history of
exacerbations in the previous year.
METHODS: Predictive variables were selected using Cox regression for time to
first severe COPD exacerbation. We determined absolute risk estimates for an
exacerbation by identifying variables in a binomial model, adjusting for
observation time, study, and treatment. The model was further reduced to
clinically useful variables and the final regression coefficients scaled to
obtain risk scores of 0-100 to predict an exacerbation within 6 months. Receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) curves and the corresponding C-index were used to 
investigate the discriminatory properties of predictive variables.
RESULTS: The best predictors of an exacerbation in the next 6 months were more
COPD maintenance medications prior to the trial, higher mean daily reliever use, 
more exacerbations during the previous year, lower forced expiratory volume in 1 
second/forced vital capacity ratio, and female sex. Using these risk variables,
we developed a score to predict short-term (6-month) risk of COPD exacerbations
(SCOPEX). Budesonide/formoterol reduced future exacerbation risk more than
formoterol or as-needed short-acting β2-agonist (salbutamol).
CONCLUSION: SCOPEX incorporates easily identifiable patient characteristics and
can be readily applied in clinical practice to target therapy to reduce COPD
exacerbations in patients at the highest risk.

PMID: 25670896  [PubMed - in process]


803. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2015 Jan 7;10:95-109.

Managing comorbidities in COPD.

Hillas G(1), Perlikos F(1), Tsiligianni I(2), Tzanakis N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Critical Care and Pulmonary Services, University of Athens
Medical School, Evangelismos Hospital, Athens, Greece. (2)Department of Thoracic 
Medicine, University Hospital of Heraklion, Medical School, University of Crete, 
Crete, Greece ; Department of General Practice, University Medical Centre of
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Thoracic Medicine,
University Hospital of Heraklion, Medical School, University of Crete, Crete,
Greece.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading cause of morbidity and 
mortality worldwide. Age and smoking are common risk factors for COPD and other
illnesses, often leading COPD patients to demonstrate multiple coexisting
comorbidities. COPD exacerbations and comorbidities contribute to the overall
severity in individual patients. Clinical trials investigating the treatment of
COPD routinely exclude patients with multiple comorbidities or advanced age.
Clinical practice guidelines for a specific disease do not usually address
comorbidities in their recommendations. However, the management and the medical
intervention in COPD patients with comorbidities need a holistic approach that is
not clearly established worldwide. This holistic approach should include the
specific burden of each comorbidity in the COPD severity classification scale.
Further, the pharmacological and nonpharmacological management should also
include optimal interventions and risk factor modifications simultaneously for
all diseases. All health care specialists in COPD management need to work
together with professionals specialized in the management of the other major
chronic diseases in order to provide a multidisciplinary approach to COPD
patients with multiple diseases. In this review, we focus on the major
comorbidities that affect COPD patients. We present an overview of the problems
faced, the reasons and risk factors for the most commonly encountered
comorbidities, and the burden on health care costs. We also provide a rationale
for approaching the therapeutic options of the COPD patient afflicted by
comorbidity.

PMCID: PMC4293292
PMID: 25609943  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


804. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2015 Jan-Feb;30(1):73-94. doi:
10.11607/jomi.3652.

Efficacy of two site-development procedures for implants in the maxillary
esthetic region: a systematic review.

Magkavali-Trikka P, Kirmanidou Y, Michalakis K, Gracis S, Kalpidis C, Pissiotis
A, Hirayama H.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this systematic review was to identify studies in which
either orthodontic extrusion or bone grafting was used prior to single implant
placement in the maxillary esthetic zone and to compare the biologic, functional,
and esthetic outcomes of these two approaches.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An electronic MEDLINE search was conducted by three
independent reviewers to identify English-language articles, published in dental 
journals between January 1992 and August 2013, reporting on single-implant site
development accomplished by orthodontic forced eruption of nonrestorable teeth or
by bone grafting procedures. The search terms were categorized into four groups
comprising a PICO (problem, intervention, comparison, outcome) question.
Supplementary manual searches of published full-text articles and related reviews
were also performed.
RESULTS: The initial database search produced 301 relevant titles. After careful 
examination and discussion, 32 studies were selected for inclusion. No study
directly comparing the two implant site-development methods was identified. The
observation periods of the available studies were either short or not stated
Conclusion: There is a substantial lack of evidence to determine which method for
implant site development is better. Definitive conclusions cannot be drawn, since
no clinical trials have directly compared these two methods. All included studies
reported separately on the two implant site-development methods and used
different protocols. According to the literature reviewed, it seems that both
methods of implant site development are effective and neither method is superior.
Multicenter studies and randomized clinical trials should be performed to
evaluate the efficacy of these two methods.

PMID: 25615917  [PubMed - in process]


805. Iran J Reprod Med. 2015 Jan;13(1):1-8.

Antioxidants and management of polycystic ovary syndrome in Iran: A systematic
review of clinical trials.

Amini L(1), Tehranian N(1), Movahedin M(2), Ramezani Tehrani F(3), Ziaee S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Midwifery & Reproductive Health, Medical Sciences Faculty,
Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran. (2)Department of Anatomical Sciences,
Medical Sciences Faculty, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Reproductive Endocrinology Research Center, Research Institute for Endocrine
Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Recently there is a focus on the antioxidants as adjuvant treatment
of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), the most endocrinopathy in reproductive age 
women.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review is answer to the question whether antioxidants 
are effective for managing of hormonal and metabolic problems in women with PCOS 
based on first degree evidences from Iran.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic review of clinical trials was done in Persian
and international databases including PubMed, Scientific Information Database,
Google Scholar, Iran Medex, and Magiran up to 2013. Keywords were including
polycystic ovary syndrome, Iran, vitamin, antioxidant. From 440 potential studies
found electronically, 11 studies; including 444 women in intervention and 390
women in control groups. Intervention in three studies was Calcium-vitamin D or
calcitriol; in three studies was ω-3 fatty acids; in two studies was N-acetyl
cysteine; in one study was folic acid; in one study was Zinc; and in one study
was Soy.
RESULTS: Finally, 11 studies that were relevant and met the inclusion criteria
reviewed. There were 7 studies in English and 4 studies in Persian. We couldn't
include all studies because all full texts were not accessible.
CONCLUSION: The results showed that antioxidants and vitamins have positive
effects on management of PCOS women. Although it seems more studies is necessary 
in this field.

PMCID: PMC4306978
PMID: 25653669  [PubMed]


806. J Asthma Allergy. 2015 Jan 14;8:1-13. doi: 10.2147/JAA.S76639. eCollection 2015.

Long-acting muscarinic antagonist use in adults with asthma: real-life
prescribing and outcomes of add-on therapy with tiotropium bromide.

Price D(1), Kaplan A(2), Jones R(3), Freeman D(4), Burden A(5), Gould S(5), von
Ziegenweidt J(5), Ali M(5), King C(5), Thomas M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Academic Centre of Primary Care, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen ; Research
in Real-Life, Cambridge, UK. (2)Family Physician Airways Group of Canada,
Richmond Hill, ON, Canada. (3)Centre for Clinical Trials and Health Research,
Plymouth University, Plymouth, UK. (4)Norfolk Community Health and Care NHS
Trust, Norwich, UK. (5)Research in Real-Life, Cambridge, UK. (6)Primary Care
Research, University of Southhampton, Southhampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: Randomized controlled trials indicate that addition of a long-acting 
muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) such as tiotropium may improve asthma control and
reduce exacerbation risk in patients with poorly controlled asthma, but broader
clinical studies are needed to investigate the effectiveness of LAMA in real-life
asthma care.
METHODS: Medical records of adults with asthma (aged ≥18 years) prescribed
tiotropium were obtained from the UK Optimum Patient Care Research Database for
the period 2001-2013. Patients diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease were excluded, but no other clinical exclusions were applied. Two primary
outcomes were compared in the year before (baseline) and the year after (outcome)
addition of tiotropium: exacerbations (asthma-related hospital emergency
department attendance or inpatient admission, or acute oral corticosteroid
course) and acute respiratory events (exacerbation or antibiotic prescription
with lower respiratory consultation). Secondary outcomes included lung function
test results and short-acting β2 agonist usage. The Wilcoxon signed-rank test was
used for variables measured on the interval scale, the marginal homogeneity test 
for categorized variables, and the paired t-test for lung function indices.
RESULTS: Of the 2,042 study patients, 83% were prescribed an inhaled
corticosteroid and 68% a long-acting β2 agonist during the baseline year; 67%
were prescribed both. Comparing baseline and outcome years, the percentage of
patients having at least one exacerbation decreased from 37% to 27% (P<0.001) and
the percentage having at least one acute respiratory event decreased from 58% to 
47% (P<0.001). There were no significant changes in lung function, and usage of
short-acting β2 agonists (in salbutamol/albuterol equivalents) increased from a
median (interquartile range) of 274 (110, 548) to 329 (110, 603) μg/day (P=0.01).
CONCLUSION: In this real-life asthma population, addition of LAMA therapy was
associated with significant decreases in the incidence of exacerbations and
antibiotic prescriptions for lower respiratory tract infections in the following 
year.

PMCID: PMC4298307
PMID: 25609985  [PubMed]


807. J Blood Med. 2015 Jan 19;6:37-44. doi: 10.2147/JBM.S47240. eCollection 2015.

Romiplostim as a treatment for immune thrombocytopenia: a review.

Chalmers S(1), Tarantino MD(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Illinois College of Medicine - Peoria, Illinois, USA ; The
Children's Hospital of Illinois, Illinois, USA. (2)University of Illinois College
of Medicine - Peoria, Illinois, USA ; The Children's Hospital of Illinois,
Illinois, USA ; The Bleeding and Clotting Disorders Institute, Peoria, Illinois, 
USA.

"Immune thrombocytopenia" (ITP) is an autoimmune disorder that leads to
peripheral destruction, as well as a decreased production of platelets. ITP most 
commonly presents as mild mucocutaneous bleeding. Though it is rare, the leading 
cause of mortality in persons with ITP is intracranial hemorrhage and those that 
do not respond to therapy are at increased risk. Our understanding of the
pathophysiology of ITP has evolved immensely, especially over the last 60 years. 
The discovery of the platelet-production stimulator, thrombopoietin (TPO), lent
clarity to an earlier hypothesis that inhibition of platelet production at the
level of the megakaryocyte, at least in part, accounts for thrombocytopenia in
adults with ITP. This facilitated the development of TPO-based therapies to treat
ITP. Thrombopoietin receptor agonists are one of the most recent treatments to
enter the landscape. Original production of a recombinant human TPO was halted
after clinical trials revealed the untoward effect of autoantibodies to the
recombinant human TPO with cross-reactivity to endogenous TPO. Next-step
development focused on stimulation of the TPO receptor with fewer immunogenic
agents. Currently, two such thrombopoietin receptor agonists, romiplostim and
eltrombopag, are licensed in the USA to treat thrombocytopenia in adults with
persistent or chronic ITP. Ongoing research will assess their efficacy in other
immune-mediated and nonimmune-mediated primary and secondary thrombocytopenias.

PMCID: PMC4304598
PMID: 25632241  [PubMed]


808. J Cancer. 2015 Jan 15;6(3):203-17. doi: 10.7150/jca.10640. eCollection 2015.

Immune Suppression during Oncolytic Virotherapy for High-Grade Glioma; Yes or No?

Koks CA(1), De Vleeschouwer S(2), Graf N(3), Van Gool SW(4).

Author information: 
(1)1. Pediatric Immunology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, KU Leuven,
Belgium. (2)2. Department of Neurosciences, KU Leuven, Belgium ; 3. Neurosurgery,
University Hospitals Leuven, Belgium. (3)4. Department for Pediatric Oncology,
University of Saarland Medical School, Germany. (4)1. Pediatric Immunology,
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, KU Leuven, Belgium ; 5. Pediatric
Neuro-oncology, University Hospitals Leuven, Belgium.

Oncolytic viruses have been seriously considered for glioma therapy over the last
20 years. The oncolytic activity of several oncolytic strains has been
demonstrated against human glioma cell lines and in in vivo xenotransplant
models. So far, four of these stains have additionally completed the first phase 
I/II trials in relapsed glioma patients. Though safety and feasibility have been 
demonstrated, therapeutic efficacy in these initial trials, when described, was
only minor. The role of the immune system in oncolytic virotherapy for glioma
remained much less studied until recent years. When investigated, the immune
system, adept at controlling viral infections, is often hypothesized to be a
strong hurdle to successful oncolytic virotherapy. Several preclinical studies
have therefore aimed to improve oncolytic virotherapy efficacy by combining it
with immune suppression or evasion strategies. More recently however, a new
paradigm has developed in the oncolytic virotherapy field stating that oncolytic 
virus-mediated tumor cell death can be accompanied by elicitation of potent
activation of innate and adaptive anti-tumor immunity that greatly improves the
efficacy of certain oncolytic strains. Therefore, it seems the three-way
interaction between oncolytic virus, tumor and immune system is critical to the
outcome of antitumor therapy. In this review we discuss the studies which have
investigated how the immune system and oncolytic viruses interact in models of
glioma. The novel insights generated here hold important implications for future 
research and should be incorporated into the design of novel clinical trials.

PMCID: PMC4317755
PMID: 25663937  [PubMed]


809. J Clin Aesthet Dermatol. 2015 Jan;8(1):31-7.

Comparative efficacy and tolerability of dapsone 5% gel in adult versus
adolescent females with acne vulgaris.

Del Rosso JQ(1), Kircik L(2), Gallagher CJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Touro University College of Osteopathic Medicine, Henderson, Nevada; Las Vegas
Skin and Cancer Clinics/West Dermatology Group, Henderson, Nevada; (2)Mount Sinai
Medical Center, New York, New York; Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, Indiana; Physicians Skin Care PLLC, Louisville, Kentucky;
(3)Medical Affairs, Allergan, Inc., Irvine, California.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the response to dapsone 5% gel was similar in
adolescent girls and adult women with facial acne vulgaris.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Subgroup analysis of female subjects with acne vulgaris
receiving active treatment enrolled in two randomized, double-blind Phase 3
clinical trials.
TREATMENT: Twice-daily applications of dapsone 5% gel over 12 weeks.
PARTICIPANTS: Adolescent (12-17 years of age) and adult (≥18 years of age)
females.
MEASUREMENTS: At baseline and at Weeks 2,4,6,8, and 12, subjects were evaluated
using the global acne assessment score and by counts of inflammatory,
noninflammatory, and total acne vulgaris lesions. Adverse events were monitored.
RESULTS: A total of 347 adolescent and 434 adult women were included in the
subgroup analysis. At Week 12, dapsone 5% gel significantly reduced mean global
acne assessment score in both subgroups (p<0.001); however, the proportion of
subjects with clinical success (no or minimal acne based on global acne
assessment score) at Week 12 was greater in adult women (53.5%) versus adolescent
females (45.3%, p=0.022). Significantly greater percentage reductions in both
noninflammatory (p<0.0001) and total lesion counts (p=0.0008) were observed in
the adult group as compared to the adolescent group. Percentage reductions from
baseline in inflammatory lesions were similar in both groups. No major safety
issues and no previously unrecognized safety signals were noted.
CONCLUSION: This subgroup analysis of female patients indicates that dapsone 5%
gel twice daily is effective in reducing inflammatory and noninflammatory acne
vulgaris lesions in both adolescent and adult women, and is safe in these
subgroups. Overall, these data suggest that efficacy of dapsone 5% gel twice
daily for facial acne vulgaris may be greater in the adult female population.

PMCID: PMC4295856
PMID: 25610522  [PubMed]


810. J Clin Invest. 2015 Jan;125(1):1-4. doi: 10.1172/JCI78652. Epub 2015 Jan 2.

Autophagy: a druggable process that is deregulated in aging and human disease.

Kroemer G.

Autophagy ("self-eating") constitutes one of the most spectacular yet subtly
regulated phenomena in cell biology. Similarly to cell division, differentiation,
and death, autophagy is perturbed in multiple diseases, in that excessive or
deficient autophagy may contribute to pathogenesis. Numerous attempts have been
launched to identify specific inducers or inhibitors of autophagy and to use them
for the therapeutic correction of its deregulation. At present, several major
disease categories (including but not limited to age-related, cardiovascular,
infectious, neoplastic, neurodegenerative, and metabolic pathologies) are being
investigated for pathogenic aberrations in autophagy and their pharmacologic
rectification. Driven by promising preclinical results, several clinical trials
are exploring autophagy as a therapeutic target.

PMID: 25654544  [PubMed - in process]


811. J Clin Neurol. 2015 Jan;11(1):1-8. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2015.11.1.1. Epub 2015 Jan 2.

Endovascular therapy for ischemic stroke.

Appireddy RM(1), Demchuk AM(2), Goyal M(3), Menon BK(4), Eesa M(5), Choi P(1),
Hill MD(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. (2)Departments of Clinical Neurosciences and
Radiology, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary,
Calgary, AB, Canada. (3)Departments of Clinical Neurosciences and Radiology,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. (4)Department of
Clinical Neurosciences, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. (5)Department of Radiology, Faculty
of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. (6)Departments of
Clinical Neurosciences, Medicine, Radiology, and Community Health Sciences,
Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary,
AB, Canada.

The utility of intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (IV t-PA) in improving
the clinical outcomes after acute ischemic stroke has been well demonstrated in
past clinical trials. Though multiple initial small series of endovascular stroke
therapy had shown good outcomes as compared to IV t-PA, a similar beneficial
effect had not been translated in multiple randomized clinical trials of
endovascular stroke therapy. Over the same time, there have been parallel
advances in imaging technology and better understanding and utility of the
imaging in therapy of acute stroke. In this review, we will discuss the evolution
of endovascular stroke therapy followed by a discussion of the key factors that
have to be considered during endovascular stroke therapy and directions for
future endovascular stroke trials.

PMCID: PMC4302170
PMID: 25628731  [PubMed]


812. J Diabetes Metab Disord. 2015 Jan 14;14(1):1. doi: 10.1186/s40200-014-0127-9.
eCollection 2015.

Phylloquinone supplementation improves glycemic status independent of the effects
of adiponectin levels in premonopause women with prediabetes: a double-blind
randomized controlled clinical trial.

Rasekhi H(1), Karandish M(1), Jalali MT(2), Mohammadshahi M(1), Zarei M(3), Saki 
A(4), Shahbazian H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur University
of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran. (2)Hyperlipidemia Research Center, Ahvaz
Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran. (3)Department of Food
Hygiene, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz,
Ahvaz, Iran. (4)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Health,
Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran. (5)Diabetes
Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Vitamin K, as a cofactor in the gamma carboxylation of certain
glutamic acid (Gla) residues, has been related to glucose metabolism and insulin 
sensitivity. Osteocalcin, also known as bone γ-carboxyglutamic acid, increases
β-cell proliferation as well as insulin and adiponectin secretion, which improve 
glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Thus, the purpose of the present study
was to examine the possible role of adiponectin as a mediator of glucose
homeostasis following phylloquinone supplementation in premonopause women with
prediabetes.
METHODS: Eighty two women were randomized to consume vitamin k1 supplement
(n = 39) or placebo (n = 43) for four weeks. Participants in vitamin K1 treatment
group received one pearl softgel capsule containing 1000 micrograms phylloquinone
while the placebo group received one placebo capsules daily for four weeks. The
Blood samples were collected at baseline and after a four-week intervention to
quantify osteocalcin, adiponectin, leptin and relevant variables.
RESULTS: Phylloquinone supplementation significantly increased serum adiponectin 
concentration (1.24 ± 1.90 compared with -0.27 ± 1.08 μg/ml), and did not alter
total osteocalcin (0.50 ± 4.11 compared with 0.13 ± 1.85 ng/ml) and leptin
(-0.29 ± 8.23 compared with -1.15 ± 5.25 ng/ml) compared with placebo.
Adjustments for total osteocalcin and adiponectin using analysis of covariance
(ANCOVA) did not affect the association of glycemic status with related
variables.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion our study demonstrated that phylloquinone
supplementation improved glycemic status in premonopausal prediabetic women
independent of adiponectin.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial was registered in Iranian Registry of Clinical
Trials with ID number of IRCT2013120915724N1.

PMCID: PMC4316808
PMID: 25654061  [PubMed]


813. J Drugs Dermatol. 2015 Jan 1;14(1):50-4.

Biological properties of a new volumizing hyaluronic Acid filler: a systematic
review.

Ho D, Jagdeo J.

BACKGROUND: Hyaluronic acid (HA) dermal fillers are effective and safe for
correction of facial rhytides. A new volumizing HA filler, 20 mg/ml HA dermal
filler (Juvéderm® Voluma®, Allergan Inc., Irvine, CA), is the only HA filler with
a FDA indication for facial volumization due to age-related facial volume
loss.<BR />
OBJECTIVE: Evaluate the biological properties, including biochemical, biophysical
and rheological, of this new 20 mg/ml HA dermal filler and discuss the importance
of these properties in clinical applications.<BR />
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A systematic search of the computerized bibliographic
databases Medline, Embase, Embal, Biosis, SciSearch, Pascal, HCAPlus, IPA, and
Dissertation Abstracts with key term "Voluma." Four articles on the biological
properties of this new 20 mg/ ml HA dermal filler were suitable for inclusion in 
this review.<BR />
RESULTS: Biological analysis of elasticity and viscosity values of this new 20
mg/ml HA dermal filler demonstrated intermediate properties in three studies and 
high in one study compared to other HA dermal fillers. This 20 mg/ml HA dermal
filler retained the highest elasticity and viscosity values at temperature of
37°C. Histology demonstrated that this 20 mg/ml HA dermal filler has an
intermediate pattern of distribution within the superficial and deep reticular
dermis.<BR />
CONCLUSION: This 20 mg/ml HA dermal filler demonstrated volumizing ability, and
maintaining viscosity and free-flowing characteristics for easy injection, tissue
lifting, and molding. We hope future research incorporates biological properties 
analysis of this HA dermal filler in clinical trials.<BR /><BR /> <EM>J Drugs
Dermatol.</EM> 2015;14(1):50-54.

PMID: 25607908  [PubMed - in process]


814. J Drugs Dermatol. 2015 Jan 1;14(1):33-40.

Optimizing the use of topical brimonidine in rosacea management: panel
recommendations.

Tanghetti EA, Jackson JM, Belasco KT, Friedrichs A, Hougier F, Johnson SM, Kerdel
FA, Palceski D, Hong HC, Hinek A, Cadena MJ.

Rosacea is a chronic inflammatory disease with a complex pathophysiology that
manifests with central facial redness with or without papulopustular lesions.
Often, patients with rosacea present with a constellation of signs and symptoms; 
for best results, the treatment plan should take into account all symptoms
manifesting in the individual patient. The first available pharmacologic
treatment to address the redness associated with rosacea is topical brimonidine. 
In the United States, brimonidine topical gel 0.33% is indicated for persistent
facial erythema of rosacea; approval was based on clinically significant efficacy
and good safety data from large-scale clinical trials. Use of brimonidine in
routine clinical practice has yielded new insights that elaborate on the findings
from clinical trials. For example, real-world use has shown that a percentage of 
patients (in our experience, approximately 10 to 20%) treated with brimonidine
experience a worsening of erythema that has been called "rebound." Our routine
use of this agent for &gt;1 year has yielded strategies to set patient
expectations, optimize treatment initiation, and minimize potential problems;
this article details those strategies. Because we believe that the term "rebound"
has been used to describe several physiologically distinct events, we have also
proposed more specific terminology for such events. <br/><br/> <em>J Drugs
Dermatol.</em> 2015;14(1):33-40.

PMID: 25607906  [PubMed - in process]


815. J Integr Med. 2015 Jan;13(1):20-4. doi: 10.1016/S2095-4964(15)60153-4.

The effects of Park sham needles: a pilot study.

To M(1), Alexander C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, Charing
Cross Hospital, Fulham Palace Road, London W6 8RF, UK; E-mail:
may.to.09@imperial.ac.uk. (2)Department of Physiotherapy, Imperial College
Healthcare NHS Trust, Charing Cross Hospital, Fulham Palace Road, London W6 8RF, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: When performing clinical trials involving acupuncture, it can be
difficult to choose a placebo control.
OBJECTIVE: To validate the Park sham needle for use as a double-blind control
intervention.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS AND INTERVENTIONS: Two different methods were
employed. First, a researcher blinded to needle type administered the Park sham
or a real needle, chosen at random, on the arms of 16 healthy volunteers. The
researcher and the volunteers independently recorded which needle type they
thought had been applied at each acupuncture point. Second, 19 patients with
shoulder impingement syndrome were randomly assigned to receive acupuncture
applied with the real needle or the Park sham needle, once a week for 6 weeks
alongside a course of physiotherapy. At the end of the 6 sessions the patients
recorded which needle type they thought was being used. The results were analyzed
with a Fisher's exact test. This study was carried out in the Outpatient
Department of Physiotherapy in Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK, on healthy
volunteers and patients with shoulder impingement pain. The age range was 23 to
54 and 22 to 74 years respectively.
RESULTS: Of the healthy volunteers, there was no difference (P=0.23) between the 
number of needles that were correctly (n=43) or incorrectly identified (n=53).
All patients thought that they had received the real needles. The researcher
correctly identified all needles that were applied.
CONCLUSION: The researcher delivering the acupuncture recognized the needle type.
However, both healthy and patient volunteers were blind to the needle type. This 
demonstrates that the Park sham needle is an effective single-blind control. It
should be noted that the number of patients recruited was small and the study was
underpowered to detect an effect of treatment.

PMID: 25609368  [PubMed - in process]


816. J Integr Med. 2015 Jan;13(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/S2095-4964(15)60155-8.

High sodium causes hypertension: evidence from clinical trials and animal
experiments.

Reddy V(1), Sridhar A(1), Machado RF(1), Chen J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Pulmonary, Critical Care Medicine, Sleep and Allergy, Department of
Medicine, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, USA.
(2)Section of Pulmonary, Critical Care Medicine, Sleep and Allergy, Department of
Medicine, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, USA;
E-mail: chenjw@uic.edu.

Hypertension is a cardiovascular disease affecting approximately one out of every
seven people worldwide. High-sodium consumption has been generally accepted as a 
risk factor for developing hypertension. Today, global sodium consumption greatly
exceeds guidelines recommended by all medical institutions. This review
synthesizes the data of landmark mammalian and human studies which investigated
the role of sodium in the pathogenesis of hypertension, along with modern studies
questioning this relationship. Recent studies concerning the potential pathways
by which high-sodium concentration induces hypertension were reviewed. Human
trials and population studies revealed a strong correlation between high blood
pressure and average dietary sodium; and animal studies found a dramatic
reduction in vascular function in a variety of mammals treated with high-sodium
diets. In spite of a few contrarian studies, we found overwhelming evidence that 
elevated sodium consumption could cause hypertension.

PMID: 25609366  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


817. J Minim Access Surg. 2015 Jan-Mar;11(1):16-21. doi: 10.4103/0972-9941.147673.

Review of contemporary role of robotics in bariatric surgery.

Bindal V(1), Bhatia P(1), Dudeja U(2), Kalhan S(1), Khetan M(1), John S(1),
Wadhera S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Minimal Access, Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, Sir Ganga Ram
Hospital, New Delhi, India. (2)Department of Biochemistry, University College of 
Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.

With the rise in a number of bariatric procedures, surgeons are facing more
complex and technically demanding surgical situations. Robotic digital platforms 
potentially provide a solution to better address these challenges. This review
examines the published literature on the outcomes and complications of bariatric 
surgery using a robotic platform. Use of robotics to perform adjustable gastric
banding, sleeve gastrectomy, roux-en-y gastric bypass (RYGB), biliopancreatic
diversion with duodenal switch and revisional bariatric procedures (RBP) is
assessed. A search on PubMed was performed for the most relevant articles in
robotic bariatric surgery. A total of 23 articles was selected and reviewed in
this article. The review showed that the use of robotics led to similar or lower 
complication rate in bariatric surgery when compared with laparoscopy. Two
studies found a significantly lower leak rate for robotic gastric bypass when
compared to laparoscopic method. The learning curve for RYGB seems to be shorter 
for robotic technique. Three studies revealed a significantly shorter operative
time, while four studies found a longer operative time for robotic technique of
gastric bypass. As for the outcomes of RBP, one study found a lower complication 
rate in robotic arm versus laparoscopic and open arms. Most authors stated that
the use of robotics provides superior visualisation, more degrees of freedom and 
better ergonomics. The application of robotics in bariatric surgery seems to be a
safe and feasible option. Use of robotics may provide specific advantages in some
situations, and overcome limitations of laparoscopic surgery. Large and
well-designed randomised clinical trials with long follow-up are needed to
further define the role of digital platforms in bariatric surgery.

PMCID: PMC4290112
PMID: 25598594  [PubMed]


818. J Nutr Health Aging. 2015;19(2):232-3. doi: 10.1007/s12603-014-0494-4.

Regulatory activities to address the needs of older patients.

Cerreta F(1), Temple R, Asahina Y, Connaire C.

Author information: 
(1)Francesca Cerreta, Human Medicines Research and Development Support Division, 
Scientific Advice, London, United Kingdom,Francesca.Cerreta@ema.europa.eu.

At the Drug Information Association (DIA) 49th annual meeting, for the first time
regulators (Dr Francesca Cerreta, Dr Robert Temple and Dr Yasuko Asahina) from
the three International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) co-sponsor regions came
together in a forum to discuss their perspective on how the aging population
impacts on drug development and on the design of clinical trials. In 2010, the
ICH E7 Guideline (Studies in support of Special Populations: Geriatrics) was
revised with the addition of a Questions and Answers document to take into
account the rapidly changing world demographics. Regulators from the three ICH
regions (Europe, USA and Japan) discuss here how they foresee the application of 
this guideline, and the impact that this might have on new drug development and
clinical trial design. This article aims to summarize the discussions at the
session for the benefit of a wider audience.

PMID: 25651451  [PubMed - in process]


819. J Orthod Sci. 2015 Jan-Mar;4(1):1-8. doi: 10.4103/2278-0203.149608.

Canine retraction: A systematic review of different methods used.

Kulshrestha RS(1), Tandon R(1), Chandra P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthodontics, Saraswati Dental College, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.

Canine retraction is a very important step in treatment of patients with
crowding, or first premolar extraction cases. In severe crowding cases until, the
canines have been distilized to relive the crowding, space to correctly align the
incisors will not be available. Correct positioning of the canines after
retraction is of great importance for the function, stability, and esthetics. The
aim of this systematic review was to examine, in an evidence-based way, which
kinds of canine retraction methods/techniques are most effective and which have
the least side effects. A literature survey was performed by applying the Medline
Database (Entrez PubMed) and Science Direct database covering the period from
1985 to 2014, to find out efficient ways to accomplish canine retraction.
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs), prospective and retrospective controlled
studies, and clinical trials were included. Two reviewers selected and extracted 
the data independently and assessed the quality of the retrieved studies. The
search strategy resulted in 324 articles, of which 22 met the inclusion criteria.
Due to the vast heterogeneity in study methods, the scientific evidence was too
weak to evaluate retraction efficiency during space closure. The data so far
reviewed proved that elastomeric power chains, elastic threads, magnets, NiTi
coil springs, corticotomies, distraction osteogenesis, and laser therapy, all are
able to provide optimum rate of tooth movements. All the methods were nearly
similar to each other for retraction of canines Most of the techniques lead to
anchorage loss in various amounts depending on the methods used. Most of the
studies had serious problems with small sample size, confounding factors, lack of
method error analysis, and no blinding in measurements. To obtain reliable
scientific evidence, controlled RCT's with sufficient sample sizes are needed to 
determine which method/technique is the most effective in the respective
retraction situation. Further studies should also consider patient acceptance and
cost analysis as well as implants and minor surgeries for canine retraction.

PMCID: PMC4314834
PMID: 25657985  [PubMed]


820. J Pediatr Surg. 2015 Jan;50(1):192-200. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2014.11.028. Epub
2014 Nov 12.

Prevention of infectious complications after elective colorectal surgery in
children: an American Pediatric Surgical Association Outcomes and Clinical Trials
Committee comprehensive review.

Rangel SJ(1), Islam S(2), St Peter SD(3), Goldin AB(4), Abdullah F(5), Downard
CD(6), Saito JM(7), Blakely ML(8), Puligandla PS(9), Dasgupta R(10), Austin
M(11), Chen LE(12), Renaud E(13), Arca MJ(14), Calkins CM(14).

Author information: 
(1)Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
Electronic address: shawn.rangel@childrens.harvard.edu. (2)University of Florida 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL, USA. (3)Children's Mercy Hospital,
University of Missouri, Kansas City, MO, USA. (4)Seattle Children's Hospital,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. (5)Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. (6)University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA. (7)St.
Louis Children's Hospital, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(8)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA. (9)Montreal
Children's Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada. (10)Cincinnati Children's Medical
Center, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA. (11)Children's Memorial
Hermann Hospital, University of Texas, Houston, TX, USA. (12)Children's Medical
Center, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(13)Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx, NY, USA. (14)Children's Hospital of
Wisconsin, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This goal of this review was to examine the clinical evidence in
support of commonly utilized measures intended to reduce complications following 
elective colorectal surgery.
DATA SOURCE: Literature searches were performed to identify relevant studies from
Medline, PubMed, and Cochrane databases.
STUDY SELECTION: The American Pediatric Surgery Association Outcomes and Clinical
Trials Committee selected eight questions to address this topic systematically in
the context of three management areas: 1) appropriate utilization of systemic
antibiotics for colorectal procedures, 2) reduction of stool burden through
mechanical bowel preparation, and 3) intraluminal gut decontamination through use
of enteral nonabsorbable antibiotics. Primary outcomes of interest included the
occurrence of infectious and mechanical complications related to stool burden and
intraluminal bacterial concentration (incisional surgical site infection,
anastomotic leakage, and intraabdominal abscess).
RESULTS: The evidence in support of each management category was systematically
reviewed, graded, and summarized in the context of the review's primary outcomes.
Practice recommendations were made as deemed appropriate by the committee.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical evidence in support of interventions to reduce infectious
complications following colorectal surgery is derived almost exclusively from the
adult literature. High-quality evidence to guide clinical practice in children is
sorely needed, as the available data may have only limited relevance to pediatric
colorectal diseases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25598122  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


821. J Phys Ther Sci. 2015 Jan;27(1):295-301. doi: 10.1589/jpts.27.295. Epub 2015 Jan 
9.

Analysis of laser therapy and assessment methods in the rehabilitation of
temporomandibular disorder: a systematic review of the literature.

Herpich CM(1), Amaral AP(1), Leal-Junior EC(2), Tosato Jde P(3), Gomes CA(4),
Arruda ÉE(1), Glória IP(1), Garcia MB(1), Barbosa BR(1), Rodrigues MS(4), Silva
KL(4), El Hage Y(5), Politti F(5), Gonzalez Tde O(6), Bussadori SK(1),
Biasotto-Gonzalez DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Program in Rehabilitation Sciences, Movement Analysis Research
Support Center, University Nove de Julho (UNINOVE): Rua Profa Maria Jose Barone
Fernandes, 300, Sao Paulo, SP, 02117-020, Brazil. (2)Postgraduate Program in
Rehabilitation Sciences, Laboratory of Phototherapy in Sports and Exercise,
University Nove de Julho (UNINOVE), Brazil. (3)Postgraduate Program in
Biophotonics Applied to Health Sciences, University Nove de Julho (UNINOVE),
Brazil. (4)Graduation Phisical Therapy, Universidade Nove de Julho (UNINOVE),
Brazil. (5)Program in Rehabilitation Sciences, Movement Analysis Research Support
Center, University Nove de Julho (UNINOVE), Brazil. (6)Department of Physical
Therapy Universidade Nove de Julho (UNINOVE), Brazil.

The aim of the present study was to perform a systematic review of the literature
on the effects of low-level laser therapy in the treatment of TMD, and to analyze
the use of different assessment tools. [Subjects and Methods] Searches were
carried out of the BIREME, MEDLINE, PubMed and SciELO electronic databases by two
independent researchers for papers published in English and Portuguese using the 
terms: "temporomandibular joint laser therapy" and "TMJ laser treatment".
[Results] Following the application of the eligibility criteria, 11 papers were
selected for in-depth analysis. The papers analyzed exhibited considerable
methodological differences, especially with regard to the number of sessions,
anatomic site and duration of low-level laser therapy irradiation, as well as
irradiation parameters, diagnostic criteria and assessment tools. [Conclusion]
Further studies are needed, especially randomized clinical trials, to establish
the exact dose and ideal parameters for low-level laser therapy and define the
best assessment tools in this promising field of research that may benefit
individuals with signs and symptoms of TMD.

PMCID: PMC4305586
PMID: 25642095  [PubMed]


822. J Psychiatr Pract. 2015 Jan;21(1):60-6. doi: 10.1097/01.pra.0000460622.33300.64.

CNS Drug Development: Lessons Learned Part 2. Symptoms, Not Syndromes as Targets 
Consistent with the NIMH Research Domain Approach.

Preskorn SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)PRESKORN: University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita and Kansas
University-Wichita Clinical Trials Unit.

This column is the second in a series exploring lessons for psychiatric drug
development that can be learned from the development of 6 central nervous system 
drugs with novel mechanisms of action over the past 25 years. Part 1 presented a 
brief overview of the neuroscience that supported the development of each of
these drugs, including the rationale for selecting their targets and indications.
This column reviews specific principles involved in the development of these 6
drugs that have important implications for the future of psychiatric drug
development. These include focusing on efficacy for a specific symptom or
behavior rather than a broad syndrome, choosing a target in the brain with a
specific behavioral output that is conserved from lower mammalian to human
brains, and measuring outcomes based on behavioral phenomena that can be readily 
measured in an unambiguous parametric way. It is hoped that the Research Domain
Criteria initiative of the National Institute of Health will promote research
advances consistent with this model. (Journal of Psychiatric Practice
2015;21:60-66).

PMID: 25603452  [PubMed - in process]


823. J Psychiatr Pract. 2015 Jan;21(1):49-59. doi: 10.1097/01.pra.0000460621.95181.e2.

Inpatient treatment for anorexia nervosa: a systematic review of randomized
controlled trials.

Suárez-Pinilla P(1), Peña-Pérez C, Arbaizar-Barrenechea B, Crespo-Facorro B, Del 
Barrio JA, Treasure J, Llorca-Díaz J.

Author information: 
(1)SUÁREZ-PINILLA, CRESPO-FACORRO, and DEL BARRIO: University Hospital Marqués de
Valdecilla, University of Cantabria, Santander, Spain, Centro Investigación
Biomédica en Red Salud Mental, Madrid (CIBERSAM), and Instituto de Investigación 
Marqués de Valdecilla (IDIVAL), Santander; PEÑAPÉREZ and ARBAIZAR-BARRENECHEA:
University Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, University of Cantabria, Santander;
TREASURE: Maudsley Hospital, Denmark Hill, London SE5 8AZ, United Kingdom;
LLORCA-DÍAZ: IDIVAL and University of Cantabria, Santander and CIBER
EPIDEMIOLOGíA Y SALUD PúBLICA (CIBERESP), Barcelona. Drs. Suárez-Pinilla,
Treasure, and Llorca-Díaz contributed equally to this study.

Background. Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a serious psychiatric disease. Choice of
acute inpatient care for AN is driven by the severity of symptoms and the level
of risk to the patient. Inpatient hospitalization of patients with AN typically
includes a behavioral weight gain protocol that is designed to address the core
features of the disorder: weight, appetite, and distorted thoughts and behavior. 
Some add-on treatments may also be included in the inpatient treatment model and 
may have potential benefits, including faster or greater weight gain; such
treatments include psychotherapy, psychoeducation, pharmacological treatment, and
nutritional replacement. Objective. The goal of this study was to systematically 
review randomized clinical trials (RCTs) that have compared the efficacy of
different forms of add-on treatment delivered during admission to a 24-hour
hospital and to summarize the existing data regarding weight gain associated with
such pharmacological, medical, and psychological interventions. Methods.
Systematic electronic and manual searches were conducted to identify published
RCTs concerning inpatient treatment of AN. Weight gain was used as the main
outcome variable. Results. Overall, no significant increase in weight recovery
was reported with atypical antipsychotics compared to placebo or therapy as
usual. Only one study showed slight benefits in young patients during
hospitalization (d=0.77; 95% confidence interval [CI] -0.09-1.64). No significant
effects on weight recovery were found for antidepressants (d=-0.10; 95%
CI=-0.63-0.42). In addition, none of the add-on psychotherapy techniques that
were evaluated demonstrated superiority compared with control interventions in
the inpatient setting. Cyclic enteral nutrition was studied in one RCT in which
it demonstrated superiority compared to oral refeeding only (d=0.97; 95%
CI=0.51-1.47). Other less common treatments such as bright light therapy and
lithium carbonate were not found to produce additional significant weight
improvement compared with placebo. Conclusion. Most add-on treatments during the 
acute inpatient phase of AN treatment are not effective in increasing weight
recovery. Long-term follow-up studies after the acute treatment phase are needed 
to make evidence-based recommendations. (Journal of Psychiatric Practice
2015;21:49-59).

PMID: 25603451  [PubMed - in process]


824. J R Stat Soc Ser C Appl Stat. 2015 Jan;64(1):175-189.

Higher order response adaptive urn designs for clinical trials with highly
successful treatments.

Ivanova A(1), Hoberman S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7420, U.S.A.

We consider a problem of reducing the expected number of treatment failures in
trials where the probability of response to treatment is close to 1 and
treatments are compared based on log odds ratio. We propose a new class of urn
designs for randomization of patients in a clinical trial. The new urn designs
target a number of allocation proportions including the allocation proportion
that yields the same power as equal allocation but significantly less expected
treatment failures. The new design is compared with the doubly adaptively biased 
coin design, the efficient randomized adaptive design and with equal allocation. 
The properties of the new class of designs are studied by embedding them into a
family of continuous time stochastic processes.

PMCID: PMC4309394 [Available on 2016-01-01]
PMID: 25641991  [PubMed]


825. J Vet Emerg Crit Care (San Antonio). 2015 Jan;25(1):6-19. doi: 10.1111/vec.12281.
Epub 2015 Jan 22.

The crystalloid-colloid debate: Consequences of resuscitation fluid selection in 
veterinary critical care.

Cazzolli D(1), Prittie J.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Medical Center, Department of Emergency and Critical Care, New York,
NY.

OBJECTIVE: To provide a comprehensive review of the current literature in human
and veterinary medicine evaluating the impact of resuscitation fluid choice on
patient outcome and adverse effects.
DATA SOURCES: Prospective and retrospective studies, experimental models, and
review articles in both human and veterinary medicine retrieved via PubMed.
HUMAN DATA SYNTHESIS: A series of recent, large, randomized controlled trials in 
critically ill human patients comparing crystalloid versus colloid driven fluid
resuscitation algorithms have demonstrated no outcome benefit with the use of
natural or synthetic colloids. Synthetic colloidal solutions are associated with 
an increased incidence of adverse effects including acute kidney injury, need for
renal replacement therapy, and coagulopathies. Further, colloidal solutions
demonstrate a larger volume of distribution in the setting of critical illness
than hypothesized. These findings have created controversy regarding colloid
fluid resuscitation in critically ill patients and challenge current
resuscitation strategies. A thorough review of the most influential human data is
provided.
VETERINARY DATA SYNTHESIS: No veterinary clinical outcome data pertaining to
fluid resuscitation choice currently exist. Veterinary data from experimental and
small clinical trials evaluating the coagulopathic effects of hydroxyethyl starch
solutions are described. Data pertaining to the use of natural colloids and
albumin products in clinical veterinary patients are reviewed. In addition, data 
pertaining to the comparative intravascular volume expansion effectiveness of
different fluid types in canine patients are reviewed.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical data from critically ill human patients have failed to
demonstrate an outcome advantage associated with colloidal fluid resuscitation
and indicate that hydroxyethyl starch solutions may be associated with
significant adverse effects, including acute kidney injury, need for renal
replacement therapy, coagulopathies, and pathologic tissue uptake. The ability to
apply these findings to veterinary patients is unknown; however, similar
pathophysiology may apply, and critical re-evaluation of resuscitation strategies
is justified.

© Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care Society 2015.

PMID: 25612168  [PubMed - in process]


826. JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2015 Jan;8(1 Pt B):166-74. doi:
10.1016/j.jcin.2014.09.005. Epub 2014 Oct 31.

Relationship Between Time to Invasive Assessment and Clinical Outcomes of
Patients Undergoing an Early Invasive Strategy After Fibrinolysis for ST-Segment 
Elevation Myocardial Infarction: A Patient-Level Analysis of the Randomized Early
Routine Invasive Clinical Trials.

Madan M(1), Halvorsen S(2), Di Mario C(3), Tan M(4), Westerhout CM(5), Cantor
WJ(6), Le May MR(7), Borgia F(8), Piscione F(9), Scheller B(10), Armstrong PW(5),
Fernandez-Aviles F(11), Sanchez PL(11), Graham JJ(12), Yan AT(12), Goodman
SG(13).

Author information: 
(1)Schulich Heart Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: mina.madan@sunnybrook.ca. 
(2)Department of Cardiology, Oslo University Hospital HF Ullevål, Oslo, Norway.
(3)NIHR Cardiovascular BRU, Royal Brompton Hospital and NHLI Imperial College,
London, United Kingdom. (4)Canadian Heart Research Centre, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada. (5)Canadian VIGOUR Centre, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada. (6)Southlake Regional Medical Centre, Newmarket, Ontario, Canada.
(7)University of Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. (8)Division of 
Cardiology, Federico II University, Naples, Italy. (9)Department of Medicine and 
Surgery, University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy. (10)University Hospital,
University of Saarland, Homburg/Saar, Germany. (11)Hospital General Universitario
Gregorio Marañón-Complutense University, Madrid, Spain. (12)Division of
Cardiology, St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada. (13)Canadian Heart Research Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Division of
Cardiology, St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada.

OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the relationship between time to invasive
assessment and outcomes among ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients
randomized to early angiography after fibrinolysis.
BACKGROUND: The optimal timing of coronary angiography after fibrinolysis and the
association with clinical outcomes is uncertain.
METHODS: Patient-level data from 6 randomized trials, with a median time to
angiography <12 h after fibrinolysis, were pooled. The primary endpoint was
30-day death or reinfarction. The key secondary endpoint was in-hospital major
bleeding. The relationship between fibrinolysis to angiography time and symptom
onset to angiography time with outcomes was studied using 2- and 4-h intervals,
respectively, and in multivariable models.
RESULTS: Among 1,238 patients, the median fibrinolysis to angiography time was
165 min, and the median symptom onset to angiography time was 5.33 h. The primary
and key secondary endpoints occurred in 5.7% and 4.7%, respectively. These main
endpoints did not vary significantly with increasing fibrinolysis to angiography 
time. Early angiography (<2 h) after fibrinolysis was not associated with
increased bleeding. Recurrent ischemia increased with increasing fibrinolysis to 
angiography time (3.7% to 7.9%, p for trend = 0.02). Thirty-day and 1-year
death/reinfarction and 30-day recurrent ischemia increased significantly with
increasing symptom onset to angiography time. Neither fibrinolysis to angiography
time nor symptom onset to angiography time was an independent predictor of the
primary endpoint. Only symptom onset to angiography time was an independent
predictor of 1-year death/reinfarction (hazard ratio: 1.07, 95% confidence
interval: 1.02 to 1.12, p = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Very early angiography (<2 h) after fibrinolysis was not associated 
with an increased risk of 30-day death/reinfarction or in-hospital major
bleeding, and angiography within 4 h after fibrinolysis was associated with
reduced 30-day recurrent ischemia. A shorter symptom onset to angiography time
(<4 h) was associated with reduced 30-day and 1-year death/reinfarction and
30-day recurrent ischemia. In the current environment of regional networks of
24/7 primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) centers, the clinical
implication of these findings is that patients initially treated with
fibrinolysis should also be promptly transferred to the nearest PCI center for
immediate angiography and PCI. (Early Percutaneous Coronary Intervention [PCI]
After Fibrinolysis Versus Standard Therapy in ST Segment Elevation Myocardial
Infarction [STEMI] Patients; NCT01014182).

Copyright © 2015 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25616922  [PubMed - in process]


827. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Jan;16(1):e43-e52. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70380-8. Epub
2014 Dec 29.

Outcomes and endpoints in cancer trials: bridging the divide.

Wilson MK(1), Collyar D(2), Chingos DT(3), Friedlander M(4), Ho TW(5), Karakasis 
K(1), Kaye S(6), Parmar MK(7), Sydes MR(7), Tannock IF(1), Oza AM(8).

Author information: 
(1)University of Toronto Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Patient Advocates In Research, Danville, CA, USA. (3)The Noreen Fraser
Foundation, Los Angeles, CA, USA. (4)Prince of Wales Clinical School, University 
of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. (5)AstraZeneca, Wilmington DE 19850-5437, 
USA. (6)Drug Development Unit and Gynaecology Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital and
Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK. (7)MRC Clinical Trials Unit, University
College London, London, UK. (8)University of Toronto Princess Margaret Cancer
Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic address: amit.oza@uhn.ca.

Cancer is not one disease. Outcomes and endpoints in trials should incorporate
the therapeutic modality and cancer type because these factors affect clinician
and patient expectations. In this Review, we discuss how to: define the
importance of endpoints; make endpoints understandable to patients; improve the
use of patient-reported outcomes; advance endpoints to parallel changes in trial 
design and therapeutic interventions; and integrate these improvements into
trials and practice. Endpoints need to reflect benefit to patients, and show that
changes in tumour size either in absolute terms (response and progression) or
relative to control (progression) are clinically relevant. Improvements in trial 
design should be accompanied by improvements in available endpoints. Stakeholders
need to come together to determine the best approach for research that ensures
accountability and optimises the use of available resources.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25638556  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


828. Med Devices (Auckl). 2015 Jan 16;8:79-93. doi: 10.2147/MDER.S39691. eCollection
2015.

New developments in bone-conduction hearing implants: a review.

Reinfeldt S(1), Håkansson B(1), Taghavi H(1), Eeg-Olofsson M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Signals and Systems, Chalmers University of Technology,
Gothenburg, Sweden. (2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg,
Gothenburg, Sweden.

The different kinds of bone-conduction devices (BCDs) available for hearing
rehabilitation are growing. In this paper, all BCDs currently available or in
clinical trials will be described in categories according to their principles.
BCDs that vibrate the bone via the skin are referred to as skin-drive devices,
and are divided into conventional devices, which are attached with softbands, for
example, and passive transcutaneous devices, which have implanted magnets. BCDs
that directly stimulate the bone are referred to as direct-drive devices, and are
further divided into percutaneous and active transcutaneous devices; the latter
have implanted transducers directly stimulating the bone under intact skin. The
percutaneous direct-drive device is known as a bone-anchored hearing aid, which
is the BCD that has the largest part of the market today. Because of some issues 
associated with the percutaneous implant, and to some extent because of
esthetics, more transcutaneous solutions with intact skin are being developed
today, both in the skin-drive and in the direct-drive category. Challenges in
developing transcutaneous BCDs are mostly to do with power, attachment,
invasiveness, and magnetic resonance imaging compatibility. In the future, the
authors assume that the existing percutaneous direct-drive BCD will be retained
as an important rehabilitation alternative, while the transcutaneous solutions
will increase their part of the market, especially for patients with
bone-conduction thresholds better than 35 dB HL (hearing level). Furthermore, the
active transcutaneous direct-drive BCDs appear to be the most promising systems, 
but to establish more detailed inclusion criteria, and potential benefits and
drawbacks, more extensive clinical studies are needed.

PMCID: PMC4303401
PMID: 25653565  [PubMed]


829. Med Devices (Auckl). 2015 Jan 12;8:71-8. doi: 10.2147/MDER.S58278. eCollection
2015.

Clinical use of antibacterial mesh envelopes in cardiovascular electronic device 
implantations.

Hirsh DS(1), Bloom HL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, School of Medicine, Emory University,
Atlanta, GA, USA ; Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Atlanta Veterans
Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, GA, USA.

Cardiovascular implantable electronic device system infection is a serious
complication of cardiac device implantation and carries with it a risk of
significant morbidity and mortality. In the last 15 years, expansions of
indications for cardiac devices have resulted in much higher volumes of much
sicker patients being implanted, carrying significant risk of infection.
Coagulase (-) Staphylococcus and Staphylococcus aureus are responsible for the
majority of these infections, and these organisms are increasingly resistant to
methicillin. The Aigis™ envelop is a Food and Drug Administration-approved
implantable mesh that is impregnated with antibiotics that can be placed in the
surgical incision prior to closure. The antibiotics elute off the mesh for 7-10
days, providing in vivo surgical site coverage with rifampin and minocyclin. This
paper reviews the three retrospective clinical trials published in peer-reviewed 
journals and the interim analysis of the two ongoing prospective trials that have
been presented at international conferences. Overall consensus is that the Aigis™
offers significant risk reduction for cardiovascular implantable electronic
device infection. We then give a comprehensive discussion of how to use the
Aigis™ envelop in the clinical setting, comparing the manufacturer's
recommendations with our extensive clinical experience.

PMCID: PMC4296961
PMID: 25624774  [PubMed]


830. Med J Armed Forces India. 2015 Jan;71(1):67-70. doi: 10.1016/j.mjafi.2014.09.011.
Epub 2014 Nov 24.

Discovery of fifth serotype of dengue virus (DENV-5): A new public health dilemma
in dengue control.

Mustafa MS(1), Rasotgi V(2), Jain S(3), Gupta V(4).

Author information: 
(1)Officer Commanding, Station Health Organisation (Large), Allahabad 908406,
India. (2)Director, AFMS (Pensions), O/o DGAFMS, New Delhi, India. (3)ADH &
Senior Adviser (Community Medicine), HQ 11 Corps, C/O 56 APO, India. (4)Officer
Commanding, 136 Station Health Organisation (Large), C/O 56 APO, India.

Dengue fever is a re-emerging public health problem with two-fifths of the world 
population being at risk of infection. Till now, dengue fever was believed to be 
caused by four different serotypes. The fifth variant DENV-5 has been isolated in
October 2013. This serotype follows the sylvatic cycle unlike the other four
serotypes which follow the human cycle. The likely cause of emergence of the new 
serotype could be genetic recombination, natural selection and genetic
bottlenecks. There is no indication of the presence of DENV-5 in India. Recent
clinical trials with the promising Chimerivax tetravalent vaccine suffered a
setback. Discovery of DENV-5 and more such sylvatic strains in future may further
impede the Dengue Vaccine Initiative. Integrated Vector Management holds the key 
to sustainable dengue control. Further epidemiological and ecological studies are
needed to detect additional sylvatic dengue strains.

PMCID: PMC4297835 [Available on 2016-01-01]
PMID: 25609867  [PubMed]


831. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Jan;94(3):e434. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000434.

Predictive Value of 18F-FDG PET and CT Morphologic Features for Recurrence in
Pathological Stage IA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Ko KH(1), Hsu HH, Huang TW, Gao HW, Cheng CY, Hsu YC, Chang WC, Chu CM, Chen JH, 
Lee SC.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Radiology (K-HK, H-HH, Y-CH, W-CC); Department of
Thoracic Surgery (T-WH, S-CL); Department of Pathology (H-WG); Department of
Nuclear Medicine (C-YC), Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense Medical
Center; Section of Health Informatics (C-MC), Institute of Public Health,
National Defense Medical Center; and Division of Hematology-Oncology (J-HC),
Department of Internal Medicine, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense
Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.

Patients with pathological stage IA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) may
relapse despite complete surgical resection without lymphovascular invasion. A
method of selecting a high-risk group for adjuvant therapy is necessary. The aim 
of this study was to assess the predictive value of F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)
uptake and the morphologic features of computed tomography (CT) for recurrence in
pathological stage IA NSCLC.One hundred forty-five patients with pathological
stage IA NSCLC who underwent pretreatment with FDG positron emission tomography
and CT evaluations were retrospectively enrolled. The associations among tumor
recurrence and patient characteristics, maximal standard uptake value (SUVmax) of
primary tumors, and CT imaging features were investigated using univariate and
multivariate analyses. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis
was performed to quantify the predictive value of these factors.Tumor recurrence 
developed in 21 (14.5%) of the 145 patients, and the 5-year recurrence-free
survival rate was 77%. The univariate analysis demonstrated that SUVmax, the
grade of histological differentiation, tumor size, and the presence of
bronchovascular bundle thickening were significant predictive factors (P < 0.05).
A higher SUVmax (≥2.5) (P = 0.021), a lower ground-glass opacity ratio (≤17%)
(P = 0.014), and the presence of bronchovascular bundle thickening (P = 0.003)
were independent predictive factors of tumor recurrence in the multivariate
analysis. The use of this predictive model yielded a greater area under the ROC
curve (0.877), which suggests good discrimination.The combined evaluation of FDG 
uptake and CT morphologic features may be helpful in the prediction of recurrence
in patients with pathological stage IA NSCLC and in the stratification of a
high-risk group for postoperative adjuvant therapy or prospective clinical
trials.

PMID: 25621697  [PubMed - in process]


832. Middle East Afr J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan-Mar;22(1):38-44. doi:
10.4103/0974-9233.148347.

Update on Schlemm's Canal Based Procedures.

Mansouri K(1), Shaarawy T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland,
Colorado, USA ; Department of Ophthalmology, University of Colorado School of
Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, USA. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Geneva
University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland, Colorado, USA.

Surgical options for glaucoma have expanded in recent years. This article
provides an evidence-based update on the novel or emerging surgical techniques
for the treatment of open-angle glaucoma that are based on the Schlemm's canal
(SC). Canaloplasty is an ab externo approach and was developed as an alternative 
to traditional filtering surgeries. The Hydrus microstent (Ivantis Inc., Irvine, 
CA) is a so-called SC scaffold that directly bypasses the trabecular meshwork to 
drain aqueous humor into the SC, which it keeps dilated over approximately one
quadrant. Canaloplasty has also been shown to lower intraocular pressure (IOP) by
up to 40% and combined with cataract surgery. IOP was lowered 44% at 24 months
while maintaining a favorable safety profile. The Hydrus device has been proposed
as an adjunct to cataract extraction surgery. To date, no published evidence from
clinical trials is available on its in vivo safety and efficacy. Schlemm's canal 
based glaucoma procedures show promise as alternative treatments to traditional
glaucoma surgery. Surgeons must be comfortable with angle anatomy. A prerequisite
for functionality of these techniques is the integrity of the distal outflow
system. At present, however, it is not possible to conclude whether these novel
procedures will be viable alternatives to standard filtering surgery over the
long-term.

PMCID: PMC4302475
PMID: 25624672  [PubMed - in process]


833. Neoplasia. 2015 Jan;17(1):124-33. doi: 10.1016/j.neo.2014.11.009.

The Antitumorigenic Function of EGFR in Metastatic Breast Cancer is Regulated by 
Expression of Mig6.

Wendt MK(1), Williams WK(2), Pascuzzi PE(3), Balanis NG(4), Schiemann BJ(5),
Carlin CR(6), Schiemann WP(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Purdue
University, West Lafayette, IN 47907. Electronic address: mwendt@purdue.edu.
(2)Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Purdue
University, West Lafayette, IN 47907. (3)Purdue University Libraries, Purdue
University, West Lafayette, IN 47907. (4)Department of Physiology and Biophysics,
School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106. (5)Case
Comprehensive Cancer Center, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH 44106. (6)Department of Molecular Biology and Microbiology, School 
of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106.

Numerous studies by our lab and others demonstrate that epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR) plays critical roles in primary breast cancer (BC) initiation,
growth and dissemination. However, clinical trials targeting EGFR function in BC 
have lead to disappointing results. In the current study we sought to identify
the mechanisms responsible for this disparity by investigating the function of
EGFR across the continuum of the metastatic cascade. We previously established
that overexpression of EGFR is sufficient for formation of in situ primary tumors
by otherwise nontransformed murine mammary gland cells. Induction of
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is sufficient to drive the metastasis of 
these EGFR-transformed tumors. Examining growth factor receptor expression across
this and other models revealed a potent downregulation of EGFR through metastatic
progression. Consistent with diminution of EGFR following EMT and metastasis EGF 
stimulation changes from a proliferative to an apoptotic response in in situ
versus metastatic tumor cells, respectively. Furthermore, overexpression of EGFR 
in metastatic MDA-MB-231 BC cells promoted their antitumorigenic response to EGF 
in three dimensional (3D) metastatic outgrowth assays. In line with the
paradoxical function of EGFR through EMT and metastasis we demonstrate that the
EGFR inhibitory molecule, Mitogen Induced Gene-6 (Mig6), is tumor suppressive in 
in situ tumor cells. However, Mig6 expression is absolutely required for
prevention of apoptosis and ultimate metastasis of MDA-MB-231 cells. Further
understanding of the paradoxical function of EGFR between primary and metastatic 
tumors will be essential for application of its targeted molecular therapies in
BC.

Copyright © 2014 Neoplasia Press, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMCID: PMC4309683
PMID: 25622905  [PubMed - in process]


834. Neuroepidemiology. 2015;44(1):16-23. doi: 10.1159/000369621. Epub 2015 Jan 23.

Relationship between Sustained Disability Progression and Functional System
Scores in Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis: Analysis of Placebo Data from
Four Randomized Clinical Trials.

Scott T(1), Wang P, You X, Mann M, Sperling B.

Author information: 
(1)Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pa., USA.

BACKGROUND: The Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), based on different
functional system scores (FSS), remains the most frequently used disability
assessment in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). In this analysis, we
evaluated the relationship between sustained disability progression, measured by 
EDSS, and simultaneous changes in individual FSS domains.
METHODS: A post hoc analysis was performed on data from placebo-treated RRMS
patients from four large, randomized, multicenter, phase 3 clinical trials.
Sustained disability progression was defined as a ≥1.0-point EDSS score increase 
over a ≥3- or ≥6-month period. Simultaneous sustained disability progression and 
worsening of individual FSS domains was analyzed.
RESULTS: The majority of patients experienced sustained disability progression
and simultaneous worsening of ≥1 FSS domain, with ≥1-point worsening in the
pyramidal domain being most frequently associated with sustained disability
progression (in 31-51% of patients), followed by ≥1-point worsening in the
cerebellar (35-41% of patients) and sensory (31-45% of patients) domains.
CONCLUSION: The key FSS components correlating with sustained disability
progression, measured by EDSS, appear to be pyramidal, cerebellar, and sensory.
In this analysis, the simultaneous worsening of consistent FSS domains confirms
the validity and reliability of the use of sustained EDSS progression as a
measure of disability progression. © 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

PMID: 25634764  [PubMed - in process]


835. Neuroimage Clin. 2014 Dec 5;7:187-94. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.12.004.
eCollection 2015.

Brain metabolic maps in Mild Cognitive Impairment predict heterogeneity of
progression to dementia.

Cerami C(1), Della Rosa PA(2), Magnani G(3), Santangelo R(3), Marcone A(4), Cappa
SF(5), Perani D(6).

Author information: 
(1)Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy ; Division of Neuroscience, 
San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy ; Clinical Neuroscience
Department, Neurorehabilitation Unit, San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy.
(2)Istituto di Bioimmagini e Fisiologia Molecolare C.N.R., Segrate, Italy.
(3)Department of Neurology, San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy. (4)Clinical
Neuroscience Department, Neurorehabilitation Unit, San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, 
Italy. (5)Istituto Universitario degli Studi Superiori, Pavia, Italy.
(6)Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy ; Division of Neuroscience, 
San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy ; Istituto di Bioimmagini e
Fisiologia Molecolare C.N.R., Segrate, Italy ; Nuclear Medicine Unit, San
Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy.

[(18)F]FDG-PET imaging has been recognized as a crucial diagnostic marker in Mild
Cognitive Impairment (MCI), supporting the presence or the exclusion of
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) pathology. A clinical heterogeneity, however, underlies 
MCI definition. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the predictive role of
single-subject voxel-based maps of [(18)F]FDG distribution generated through
statistical parametric mapping (SPM) in the progression to different dementia
subtypes in a sample of 45 MCI. Their scans were compared to a large normal
reference dataset developed and validated for comparison at single-subject level.
Additionally, Aβ42 and Tau CSF values were available in 34 MCI subjects. Clinical
follow-up (mean 28.5 ± 7.8 months) assessed subsequent progression to AD or
non-AD dementias. The SPM analysis showed: 1) normal brain metabolism in 14 MCI
cases, none of them progressing to dementia; 2) the typical temporo-parietal
pattern suggestive for prodromal AD in 15 cases, 11 of them progressing to AD; 3)
brain hypometabolism suggestive of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD)
subtypes in 7 and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) in 2 subjects (all fulfilled
FTLD or DLB clinical criteria at follow-up); and 4) 7 MCI cases showed a
selective unilateral or bilateral temporo-medial hypometabolism without the
typical AD pattern, and they all remained stable. In our sample, objective
voxel-based analysis of [(18)F]FDG-PET scans showed high predictive prognostic
value, by identifying either normal brain metabolism or hypometabolic patterns
suggestive of different underlying pathologies, as confirmed by progression at
follow-up. These data support the potential usefulness of this SPM [(18)F]FDG PET
analysis in the early dementia diagnosis and for improving subject selection in
clinical trials based on MCI definition.

PMCID: PMC4300010
PMID: 25610780  [PubMed - in process]


836. Neuroimage Clin. 2014 Nov 18;7:43-52. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.11.010.
eCollection 2015.

Subcortical brain segmentation of two dimensional T1-weighted data sets with
FMRIB's Integrated Registration and Segmentation Tool (FIRST).

Amann M(1), Andělová M(2), Pfister A(2), Mueller-Lenke N(3), Traud S(4),
Reinhardt J(5), Magon S(2), Bendfeldt K(4), Kappos L(2), Radue EW(3), Stippich
C(5), Sprenger T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Basel, Petersgraben 4, Basel
4031, Switzerland ; Division of Diagnostic and Interventional Neuroradiology,
Department of Radiology, Petersgraben 4, Basel 4031, Switzerland. (2)Department
of Neurology, University Hospital Basel, Petersgraben 4, Basel 4031, Switzerland.
(3)Division of Diagnostic and Interventional Neuroradiology, Department of
Radiology, Petersgraben 4, Basel 4031, Switzerland ; Medical Image Analysis
Center (MIAC), Schanzenstrasse 55, Basel 4031, Switzerland. (4)Medical Image
Analysis Center (MIAC), Schanzenstrasse 55, Basel 4031, Switzerland. (5)Division 
of Diagnostic and Interventional Neuroradiology, Department of Radiology,
Petersgraben 4, Basel 4031, Switzerland.

Brain atrophy has been identified as an important contributing factor to the
development of disability in multiple sclerosis (MS). In this respect, more and
more interest is focussing on the role of deep grey matter (DGM) areas. Novel
data analysis pipelines are available for the automatic segmentation of DGM using
three-dimensional (3D) MRI data. However, in clinical trials, often no such
high-resolution data are acquired and hence no conclusions regarding the impact
of new treatments on DGM atrophy were possible so far. In this work, we used
FMRIB's Integrated Registration and Segmentation Tool (FIRST) to evaluate the
possibility of segmenting DGM structures using standard two-dimensional (2D)
T1-weighted MRI. In a cohort of 70 MS patients, both 2D and 3D T1-weighted data
were acquired. The thalamus, putamen, pallidum, nucleus accumbens, and caudate
nucleus were bilaterally segmented using FIRST. Volumes were calculated for each 
structure and for the sum of basal ganglia (BG) as well as for the total DGM. The
accuracy and reliability of the 2D data segmentation were compared with the
respective results of 3D segmentations using volume difference, volume overlap
and intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs). The mean differences for the
individual substructures were between 1.3% (putamen) and -25.2% (nucleus
accumbens). The respective values for the BG were -2.7% and for DGM 1.3%. Mean
volume overlap was between 89.1% (thalamus) and 61.5% (nucleus accumbens); BG:
84.1%; DGM: 86.3%. Regarding ICC, all structures showed good agreement with the
exception of the nucleus accumbens. The results of the segmentation were
additionally validated through expert manual delineation of the caudate nucleus
and putamen in a subset of the 3D data. In conclusion, we demonstrate that
subcortical segmentation of 2D data are feasible using FIRST. The larger
subcortical GM structures can be segmented with high consistency. This forms the 
basis for the application of FIRST in large 2D MRI data sets of clinical trials
in order to determine the impact of therapeutic interventions on DGM atrophy in
MS.

PMCID: PMC4299953
PMID: 25610766  [PubMed - in process]


837. Nihon Rinsho. 2015 Jan;73(1):162-6.

[Second primary malignancies after the treatment of multiple myeloma].

[Article in Japanese]

Makita S, Maruyama D.

Outcome of the patients with multiple myeloma has improved significantly in the
last decade, mainly because of the introduction of new agents such as
thalidomide, bortezomib and lenalidomide. Improvements in survival among patients
with multiple myeloma suggest that the incidence of second primary malignancies
(SPMs) may increase in the future. Many factors could affect increasing the risk 
of SPMs, such as treatment factors, myeloma related factors, host genetic
factors, and so on. Especially, previous clinical trials suggested that extended 
exposure to the melphalan and lenalidomide containing regimens are the important 
risk factors of SPMs. Although numbers of SPMs are small, for individual patients
who develop SPMs, the outcomes are devastating. Therefore, we need to discuss not
only the efficacy but also the risks of SPMs associated with the treatment in the
patients with multiple myeloma in new agents era.

PMID: 25626323  [PubMed - in process]


838. Nihon Rinsho. 2015 Jan;73(1):119-23.

[Therapeutic monoclonal antibodies against multiple myeloma].

[Article in Japanese]

Kuroda J.

Multiple myeloma (MM) remains mostly incurable despite the recent progress in the
treatment strategy. One of novel fields for anti-MM therapeutic strategy is the
development of immunotherapy using monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) against
myeloma-specific antigens. This article focuses on the basic and clinical aspects
of several emerging and promising novel MoAbs for MM, such as elotuzumab which
targets CS1 and daratumumab which targets CD38. Both antigens are highly
expressed in more than 90% of MM patients, and the clinical trials have shown
promising anti-MM effects, especially in combination with immunomodulatory agent 
lenalidomide. We also discuss the characteristics and the results of clinical
trials of other MoAbs, such as tabalumab against B cell activating factor or
dacetuzumab against CD40, being developed for MM.

PMID: 25626316  [PubMed - in process]


839. Obstet Gynecol Int. 2015;2015:817849. doi: 10.1155/2015/817849. Epub 2015 Jan 8.

N-acetylcysteine for polycystic ovary syndrome: a systematic review and
meta-analysis of randomized controlled clinical trials.

Thakker D(1), Raval A(2), Patel I(3), Walia R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, SAL Institute of Pharmacy, Ahmadabad, Gujarat
380060, India. (2)Department of Pharmaceutical Systems and Policy, School of
Pharmacy, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA. (3)Department of
Biopharmaceutical Sciences, Bernard J. Dunn School of Pharmacy, Shenandoah
University, Winchester, VA 22601, USA. (4)Department of Endocrinology,
Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research Institute (PGIMER), Chandigarh
160012, India.

Objective. To review the benefits and harms of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) in women
with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Method. Literature search was conducted
using the bibliographic databases, MEDLINE (Ovid), CINAHL, EMBASE, Scopus,
PsyInfo, and PROQUEST (from inception to September 2013) for the studies on women
with PCOS receiving NAC. Results. Eight studies with a total of 910 women with
PCOS were randomized to NAC or other treatments/placebo. There were high risk of 
selection, performance, and attrition bias in two studies and high risk of
reporting bias in four studies. Women with NAC had higher odds of having a live
birth, getting pregnant, and ovulation as compared to placebo. However, women
with NAC were less likely to have pregnancy or ovulation as compared to
metformin. There was no significant difference in rates of the miscarriage,
menstrual regulation, acne, hirsutism, and adverse events, or change in body mass
index, testosterone, and insulin levels with NAC as compared to placebo.
Conclusions. NAC showed significant improvement in pregnancy and ovulation rate
as compared to placebo. The findings need further confirmation in well-designed
randomized controlled trials to examine clinical outcomes such as live birth rate
in longer follow-up periods. Systematic review registration number is
CRD42012001902.

PMCID: PMC4306416
PMID: 25653680  [PubMed]


840. Pain. 2015 Jan;156(1):96-107. doi: 10.1016/j.pain.0000000000000011.

Identifying specific profiles in patients with different degrees of painful knee 
osteoarthritis based on serological biochemical and mechanistic pain biomarkers: 
a diagnostic approach based on cluster analysis.

Egsgaard LL(1), Eskehave TN, Bay-Jensen AC, Hoeck HC, Arendt-Nielsen L.

Author information: 
(1)aCenter for Sensory Motor Interaction, Department of Health Science and
Technology, Faculty of Medicine, School of Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg 
East, Denmark bCenter for Clinical and Basic Research (CCBR) and C4Pain, Aalborg,
Denmark cNordic Bioscience, Herlev, Denmark.

Biochemical and pain biomarkers can be applied to patients with painful
osteoarthritis profiles and may provide more details compared with conventional
clinical tools. The aim of this study was to identify an optimal combination of
biochemical and pain biomarkers for classification of patients with different
degrees of knee pain and joint damage. Such profiling may provide new diagnostic 
and therapeutic options. A total of 216 patients with different degrees of knee
pain (maximal pain during the last 24 hours rated on a visual analog scale [VAS])
(VAS 0-100) and 64 controls (VAS 0-9) were recruited. Patients were separated
into 3 groups: VAS 10 to 39 (N = 81), VAS 40 to 69 (N = 70), and VAS 70 to 100 (N
= 65). Pressure pain thresholds, temporal summation to pressure stimuli, and
conditioning pain modulation were measured from the peripatellar and
extrasegmental sites. Biochemical markers indicative for autoinflammation and
immunity (VICM, CRP, and CRPM), synovial inflammation (CIIIM), cartilage loss
(CIIM), and bone degradation (CIM) were analyzed. WOMAC, Lequesne, and pain
catastrophizing scores were collected. Principal component analysis was applied
to select the optimal variable subset, and cluster analysis was applied to this
subset to create distinctly different knee pain profiles. Four distinct knee pain
profiles were identified: profile A (N = 27), profile B (N = 59), profile C (N = 
85), and profile D (N = 41). Each knee pain profile had a unique combination of
biochemical markers, pain biomarkers, physical impairments, and psychological
factors that may provide the basis for mechanism-based diagnosis, individualized 
treatment, and selection of patients for clinical trials evaluating analgesic
compounds. These results introduce a new profiling for knee OA and should be
regarded as preliminary.

PMID: 25599306  [PubMed - in process]


841. Pain. 2015 Jan;156(1):72-80. doi: 10.1016/j.pain.0000000000000009.

Results availability for analgesic device, complex regional pain syndrome, and
post-stroke pain trials: comparing the RReADS, RReACT, and RReMiT databases.

Dufka FL(1), Munch T, Dworkin RH, Rowbotham MC.

Author information: 
(1)aResearch Institute, California Pacific Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, USA
bDepartment of Anaesthesia, Centre of Head and Orthopaedics, Rigshospitalet,
Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark cDepartment of
Anesthesiology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry,
Rochester, NY, USA.

Evidence-based medicine rests on the assumption that treatment recommendations
are robust, free from bias, and include results of all randomized clinical
trials. The Repository of Registered Analgesic Clinical Trials search and
analysis methodology was applied to create databases of complex regional pain
syndrome (CRPS) and central post-stroke pain (CPSP) trials and adapted to create 
the Repository of Registered Analgesic Device Studies databases for trials of
spinal cord stimulation (SCS), repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation
(rTMS), and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). We identified 34 CRPS
trials, 18 CPSP trials, 72 trials of SCS, and 92 trials of rTMS/tDCS.
Irrespective of time since study completion, 45% of eligible CRPS and CPSP trials
and 46% of eligible SCS and rTMS/tDCS trials had available results (peer-reviewed
literature, results entered on registry, or gray literature); peer-reviewed
publications could be found for 38% and 39%, respectively. Examining almost 1000 
trials across a spectrum of painful disorders (fibromyalgia, diabetic painful
neuropathy, post-herpetic neuralgia, migraine, CRPS, CPSP) and types of
treatment, no single study characteristic consistently predicts unavailability of
results. Results availability is higher 12 months after study completion but
remains below 60% for peer-reviewed publications. Recommendations to increase
results availability include supporting organizations advocating for
transparency, enforcing existing results reporting regulations, enabling all
primary registries to post results, stating trial registration numbers in all
publication abstracts, and reducing barriers to publishing "negative" trials. For
all diseases and treatment modalities, evidence-based medicine must rigorously
adjust for the sheer magnitude of missing results in formulating treatment
recommendations.

PMCID: PMC4280280
PMID: 25599303  [PubMed - in process]


842. Patient Prefer Adherence. 2015 Jan 17;9:105-11. doi: 10.2147/PPA.S76563.
eCollection 2015.

Systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective studies for ECP treatment in
patients with steroid-refractory acute GVHD.

Zhang H(1), Chen R(1), Cheng J(1), Jin N(1), Chen B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology (Key Department of Jiangsu Medicine),
Zhongda Hospital, Medical School, Southeast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu
Province, People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the efficacy and
safety of extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) treatment in patients with
steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease (SR-aGVHD).
METHODS: An electronic search was carried out on the MEDLINE, EMBASE, Science
Citation Index (SCI), and Cochrane Library databases. We included prospective
clinical trials in SR-aGVHD treated by ECP. The main endpoints consisted of
mortality, exacerbation, or response.
RESULTS: Only seven studies involving 121 patients met the inclusion criteria for
further review. Our analysis showed positive results of ECP for aGVHD. The
overall response rate (ORR) was 0.71 and the complete response rate (CRR) was
0.71. The efficacy of ECP for skin aGVHD, liver aGVHD, and gut aGVHD were 0.86,
0.60, and 0.68, respectively. However, no sufficient evidence verifies the exact 
benefit in this review, because the number of patients enrolled in trials is
limited and publish bias exists.
CONCLUSION: ECP is an effective therapy for skin, liver, and gut aGVHD, and large
double-blind clinical trials are required to prove the outcome of this
meta-analysis.

PMCID: PMC4303403
PMID: 25653504  [PubMed]


843. Pharmacotherapy. 2015 Jan;35(1):34-42. doi: 10.1002/phar.1537.

Polymyxin combinations: pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics for rationale use.

Bergen PJ(1), Bulman ZP, Saju S, Bulitta JB, Landersdorfer C, Forrest A, Li J,
Nation RL, Tsuji BT.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Antimicrobial Pharmacodynamics, School of Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University at Buffalo, SUNY, Buffalo, New York.

Since their reintroduction into the clinic in the 1980s, the polymyxin
antibiotics colistin-administered intravenously as an inactive prodrug, colistin 
methanesulfonate (CMS)-and polymyxin B have assumed an important role as salvage 
therapy for otherwise untreatable gram-negative infections. However, the emerging
pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic data on CMS/colistin and polymyxin B indicate
that polymyxin monotherapy is unlikely to generate plasma concentrations that are
reliably efficacious. Additionally, regrowth and the emergence of resistance with
monotherapy are commonly reported even when concentrations exceed those achieved 
clinically. Given this situation, polymyxin combination therapy, which is
increasingly being used clinically, has been suggested as a possible means of
increasing antimicrobial activity and reducing the development of resistance.
Although considerable in vitro data support this view, investigations of
polymyxin combination therapy in patients have only recently commenced. The
currently available clinical data for polymyxin combinations are generally
limited to retrospective analyses and small, low-powered, prospective studies
using traditional dosage regimens that achieve low plasma concentrations.
Considering the potential for rapid development of resistance to polymyxins,
well-designed clinical trials that include higher-dose polymyxin regimens are
urgently required to provide a more definitive answer regarding the role of
polymyxin combination therapy compared with monotherapy. In this article, we
provide an overview of key in vitro and clinical investigations examining
CMS/colistin and polymyxin B combination therapy.

© 2015 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

PMID: 25630411  [PubMed - in process]


844. PLoS Med. 2015 Jan 22;12(1):e1001778. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001778.
eCollection 2015.

Hormonal Contraception and the Risk of HIV Acquisition: An Individual Participant
Data Meta-analysis.

Morrison CS(1), Chen PL(2), Kwok C(2), Baeten JM(3), Brown J(4), Crook AM(5), Van
Damme L(6), Delany-Moretlwe S(7), Francis SC(8), Friedland BA(9), Hayes RJ(8),
Heffron R(3), Kapiga S(8), Karim QA(10), Karpoff S(11), Kaul R(12), McClelland
RS(3), McCormack S(4), McGrath N(13), Myer L(14), Rees H(7), van der Straten
A(15), Watson-Jones D(16), van de Wijgert JH(17), Stalter R(1), Low N(18).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Sciences, FHI 360, Durham, North Carolina, United States of America. 
(2)Biostatistics, FHI 360, Durham, North Carolina, United States of America.
(3)Department of Global Health, Medicine, and Epidemiology, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of America. (4)Department of
Epidemiology, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California,
United States of America. (5)Medical Research Council, Comprehensive Clinical
Trials Unit at UCL, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Global Health, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle,
Washington, United States of America. (7)Wits Reproductive Health and HIV
Institute, Johannesburg, South Africa. (8)Department of Infectious Disease
Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, United
Kingdom. (9)Population Council, New York, New York, United States of America.
(10)Center for the AIDS Program of Research in South Africa, University of
Kwa-Zulu Natal, Durban, South Africa. (11)Diversity Research Programs,
Multicenter Protocols Group, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York,
New York, United States of America. (12)Department of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. (13)Department of Social Statistics and
Demography, Academic Unit of Primary Care, Population Sciences, University of
Southampton, Southampton, United Kingdom. (14)Division of Epidemiology and
Biostatistics, School of Public Health and Family Medicine, University of Cape
Town, Cape Town, South Africa. (15)Women's Global Health Imperative, RTI
International, San Francisco, California, United States of America.
(16)Department of Clinical Research, London School of Hygiene & Tropical
Medicine, London, United Kingdom. (17)Department of Clinical Infection,
Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of Infection and Global Health, University
of Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom. (18)Institute of Social and Preventive 
Medicine, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Observational studies of a putative association between hormonal
contraception (HC) and HIV acquisition have produced conflicting results. We
conducted an individual participant data (IPD) meta-analysis of studies from
sub-Saharan Africa to compare the incidence of HIV infection in women using
combined oral contraceptives (COCs) or the injectable progestins
depot-medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) or norethisterone enanthate (NET-EN)
with women not using HC.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Eligible studies measured HC exposure and incident HIV
infection prospectively using standardized measures, enrolled women aged 15-49 y,
recorded ≥15 incident HIV infections, and measured prespecified covariates. Our
primary analysis estimated the adjusted hazard ratio (aHR) using two-stage random
effects meta-analysis, controlling for region, marital status, age, number of sex
partners, and condom use. We included 18 studies, including 37,124 women (43,613 
woman-years) and 1,830 incident HIV infections. Relative to no HC use, the aHR
for HIV acquisition was 1.50 (95% CI 1.24-1.83) for DMPA use, 1.24 (95% CI
0.84-1.82) for NET-EN use, and 1.03 (95% CI 0.88-1.20) for COC use. Between-study
heterogeneity was mild (I2 < 50%). DMPA use was associated with increased HIV
acquisition compared with COC use (aHR 1.43, 95% CI 1.23-1.67) and NET-EN use
(aHR 1.32, 95% CI 1.08-1.61). Effect estimates were attenuated for studies at
lower risk of methodological bias (compared with no HC use, aHR for DMPA use
1.22, 95% CI 0.99-1.50; for NET-EN use 0.67, 95% CI 0.47-0.96; and for COC use
0.91, 95% CI 0.73-1.41) compared to those at higher risk of bias (pinteraction = 
0.003). Neither age nor herpes simplex virus type 2 infection status modified the
HC-HIV relationship.
CONCLUSIONS: This IPD meta-analysis found no evidence that COC or NET-EN use
increases women's risk of HIV but adds to the evidence that DMPA may increase HIV
risk, underscoring the need for additional safe and effective contraceptive
options for women at high HIV risk. A randomized controlled trial would provide
more definitive evidence about the effects of hormonal contraception,
particularly DMPA, on HIV risk.

PMCID: PMC4303292
PMID: 25612136  [PubMed - in process]


845. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 6;10(2):e0113210. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113210.
eCollection 2015.

Exposure to Ionizing Radiation during Dental X-Rays Is Not Associated with Risk
of Developing Meningioma: A Meta-Analysis Based on Seven Case-Control Studies.

Xu P(1), Luo H(1), Huang GL(1), Yin XH(1), Luo SY(1), Song JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gui Zhou provincial people's hospital, Guiyang 550002, PR China.

BACKGROUND: Many observational studies have found that exposure to dental X-rays 
is associated with the risk of development of meningioma. However, these findings
are inconsistent. We conducted a meta-analysis to assess the relationship between
exposure to dental X-rays and the risk of development of meningioma.
METHODS: The PubMed and EMBASE databases were searched to identify eligible
studies. Summary odds ratio (OR) estimates and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs)
were used to compute the risk of meningioma development according to
heterogeneity. Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were performed to further
explore the potential heterogeneity. Finally, publication bias was assessed.
RESULTS: Seven case-control studies involving 6,174 patients and 19,459 controls 
were included in the meta-analysis. Neither exposure to dental X-rays nor
performance of full-mouth panorex X-rays was associated with an increased risk of
development of meningioma (overall: OR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.70-1.32; dental X-rays:
OR, 1.05; 95% CI, 0.89-1.25; panorex X-rays: OR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.76-1.34).
However, exposure to bitewing X-rays was associated with a slightly increased
risk of development of meningioma (OR, 1.73; 95% CI, 1.28-2.34). Similar results 
were obtained in the subgroup and sensitivity analyses. Little evidence of
publication bias was observed.
CONCLUSION: Based on the currently limited data, there is no association between 
exposure to dental X-rays and the risk of development of meningioma. However,
these results should be cautiously interpreted because of the heterogeneity among
studies. Additional large, high-quality clinical trials are needed to evaluate
the association between exposure to dental X-rays and the risk of development of 
meningioma.

PMID: 25658814  [PubMed - in process]


846. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 6;10(2):e0117150. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0117150.
eCollection 2015.

An open source business model for malaria.

Årdal C(1), Røttingen JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of International Public Health, Norwegian Institute of Public
Health, Oslo, Norway; Section for Global Health, Norwegian Knowledge Centre for
the Health Services, Oslo, Norway. (2)Division of Infectious Disease Control,
Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway; Department of Health
Management and Health Economics, Institute for Health and Society, University of 
Oslo, Oslo, Norway; Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard School of
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.

Greater investment is required in developing new drugs and vaccines against
malaria in order to eradicate malaria. These precious funds must be carefully
managed to achieve the greatest impact. We evaluate existing efforts to discover 
and develop new drugs and vaccines for malaria to determine how best malaria R&D 
can benefit from an enhanced open source approach and how such a business model
may operate. We assess research articles, patents, clinical trials and conducted 
a smaller survey among malaria researchers. Our results demonstrate that the
public and philanthropic sectors are financing and performing the majority of
malaria drug/vaccine discovery and development, but are then restricting access
through patents, 'closed' publications and hidden away physical specimens. This
makes little sense since it is also the public and philanthropic sector that
purchases the drugs and vaccines. We recommend that a more "open source" approach
is taken by making the entire value chain more efficient through greater
transparency which may lead to more extensive collaborations. This can, for
example, be achieved by empowering an existing organization like the Medicines
for Malaria Venture (MMV) to act as a clearing house for malaria-related data.
The malaria researchers that we surveyed indicated that they would utilize such
registry data to increase collaboration. Finally, we question the utility of
publicly or philanthropically funded patents for malaria medicines, where little 
to no profits are available. Malaria R&D benefits from a publicly and
philanthropically funded architecture, which starts with academic research
institutions, product development partnerships, commercialization assistance
through UNITAID and finally procurement through mechanisms like The Global Fund
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the U.S.' President's Malaria
Initiative. We believe that a fresh look should be taken at the cost/benefit of
patents particularly related to new malaria medicines and consider alternative
incentives, like WHO prequalification.

PMID: 25658590  [PubMed - in process]


847. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 4;10(2):e0117235. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0117235.
eCollection 2015.

Characteristics of pivotal trials and FDA review of innovative devices.

Rising JP(1), Moscovitch B(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Pew Charitable Trusts, Washington, District of Columbia, United States of 
America.

When patients lack sufficient treatment options for serious medical conditions,
they rely on the prompt approval and development of new therapeutic alternatives,
such as medical devices. Understanding the development of innovative medical
devices, including the characteristics of premarket clinical trials and length of
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) review, can help identify ways to expedite
patient access to novel technologies and inform recent efforts by FDA to more
quickly get these products to patients and physicians. We analyzed publicly
available information on clinical trials and premarket FDA review for innovative 
medical devices that fill an unmet medical need. In this first-of-its-kind study 
focusing on these products, we extracted data on the length of the pivotal
trials, primary study endpoint and FDA review; number of patients enrolled in
trials; and in what country the device was available first. We identified 27
approved priority review devices from January 2006 through August 2013. The
median duration of pivotal clinical trials was 3 years, ranging from 3 months to 
approximately 7 years. Trials had a median primary outcome measure evaluation
time of one year and a median enrollment of 297 patients. The median FDA review
time was 1 year and 3 months. Most priority review devices were available abroad 
before they were approved in the United States. Our study indicates that
addressing the length of clinical studies-and contributing factors, such as
primary outcome measures and enrollment-could expedite patient access to
innovative medical devices. FDA, manufacturers, Congress and other stakeholders
should identify the contributing factors to the length of clinical development,
and implement appropriate reforms to address those issues.

PMID: 25651420  [PubMed - in process]


848. PLoS One. 2015 Jan 30;10(1):e0116021. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0116021.
eCollection 2015.

Fever-Range Hyperthermia vs. Hypothermia Effect on Cancer Cell Viability,
Proliferation and HSP90 Expression.

Kalamida D(1), Karagounis IV(1), Mitrakas A(1), Kalamida S(1), Giatromanolaki
A(2), Koukourakis MI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiotherapy/Oncology, Democritus University of Thrace,
Alexandroupolis, 68100, Greece. (2)Department of Pathology, Democritus University
of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, 68100, Greece.

PURPOSE: The current study examines the effect of fever-range hyperthermia and
mild hypothermia on human cancer cells focusing on cell viability, proliferation 
and HSP90 expression.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A549 and H1299 lung carcinoma, MCF7 breast adenocarcinoma,
U87MG and T98G glioblastoma, DU145 and PC3 prostate carcinoma and MRC5 normal
fetal lung fibroblasts cell lines were studied. After 3-day exposure to 34°C,
37°C and 40°C, cell viability was determined. Cell proliferation (ki67 index),
apoptosis (Caspase 9) and HSP90 expression was studied by confocal microscopy.
RESULTS: Viability/proliferation experiments demonstrated that MRC5 fibroblasts
were extremely sensitive to hyperthermia, while they were the most resistant to
hypothermia. T98G and A549 were thermo-tolerant, the remaining being
thermo-sensitive to a varying degree. Nonetheless, as a universal effect,
hypothermia reduced viability/proliferation in all cell lines. Hyperthermia
sharply induced Caspase 9 in the U87MG most thermo-sensitive cell line. In T98G
and A549 thermo-tolerant cell lines, the levels of Caspase 9 declined. Moreover, 
hyperthermia strongly induced the HSP90 levels in T98G, whilst a sharp decrease
was recorded in the thermo-sensitive PC3 and U87MG cell lines. Hyperthermia
sensitized thermo-sensitive cancer cell lines to cisplatin and temozolomide,
whilst its sensitizing effect was diminished in thermo-tolerant cell lines.
CONCLUSIONS: The existence of thermo-tolerant and thermo-sensitive cancer cell
lines was confirmed, which further encourages research to classify human tumor
thermic predilection for patient stratification in clinical trials. Of interest, 
mild hypothermia had a universal suppressing effect on cancer cell proliferation,
further supporting the radio-sensitization hypothesis through reduction of oxygen
and metabolic demands.

PMID: 25635828  [PubMed - in process]


849. PLoS One. 2015 Jan 29;10(1):e0113332. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113332.
eCollection 2015.

Efficacy and Safety of Deep Anterior Lamellar Keratoplasty vs. Penetrating
Keratoplasty for Keratoconus: A Meta-Analysis.

Liu H(1), Chen Y(1), Wang P(1), Li B(1), Wang W(1), Su Y(1), Sheng M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai tenth people's Hospital, Tongji
University, Shanghai, 200072, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate difference in therapeutic outcomes between deep anterior
lamellar keratoplasty (DALK) and penetrating keratoplasty (PKP) for the clinical 
treatment of keratoconus.
METHODS: A comprehensive search was conducted in Pubmed, EMBASE, Cochrane
Library, and Web of science. Eligible studies should include at least one of the 
following factors: best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), postoperative spherical
equivalent (SE), postoperative astigmatism and endothelial cell count (ECC),
central corneal thickness (CCT), graft rejection and graft failure, of which
BCVA, graft rejection and graft failure were used as the primary outcome
measures, and postoperative SE, astigmatism, CCT and ECC as the secondary outcome
measures. Given the lack of randomized clinical trials (RCTs), cohort studies and
prospective studies were considered eligible.
RESULTS: Sixteen clinical trials involving 6625 eyes were included in this
review, including 1185 eyes in DALK group, and 5440 eyes in PKP group. The
outcomes were analyzed using Cochrane Review Manager (RevMan) version 5.0
software. The postoperative BCVA in DALK group was significantly better than that
in PKP group (OR = 0.48; 95%CI 0.39 to 0.60; p<0.001). There were fewer cases of 
graft rejection in DALK group than those in PKP group (OR = 0.28; 95%CI 0.15 to
0.50; p<0.001). Nevertheless the rate of graft failure was similar between DALK
and PKP groups (OR = 1.05; 95%CI 0.81 to 1.36; p = 0.73). There were no
significant differences in the secondary outcomes of SE (p = 0.70), astigmatism
(p = 0.14) and CCT (p = 0.58) between DALK and PKP groups. And ECC in DALK group 
was significantly higher than PKP group (p<0.001). The postoperative
complications, high intraocular pressure (high-IOP) and cataract were analyzed,
fewer cases of complications occurred in DALK group than those in PKP group
(high-IOP, OR 0.22, 95% CI 0.11-0.44, P<0.001) (cataract, OR 0.22; 95% CI
0.08-0.61, P = 0.004). And no cases of expulsive hemorrhage and endophthalmitis
were reported.
CONCLUSION: The visual outcomes for DALK were not equivalent to PKP. The rate of 
graft failure was similar between DALK and PKP. Fewer postoperative complications
occurred in DALK group, indicating that compared with PKP, DALK has lower
efficacy but higher safety.

PMCID: PMC4310590
PMID: 25633311  [PubMed - in process]


850. PLoS One. 2015 Jan 22;10(1):e0116160. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0116160.
eCollection 2015.

Endothelial nitric oxide synthase single nucleotide polymorphism and left
ventricular function in early chronic kidney disease.

Chand S(1), Chue CD(2), Edwards NC(2), Hodson J(3), Simmonds MJ(4), Hamilton
A(4), Gough SC(5), Harper L(1), Steeds RP(2), Townend JN(2), Ferro CJ(6), Borrows
R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, B15
2WB, United Kingdom; Centre for Translational Inflammation Research, University
of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2WB, United Kingdom. (2)Department of Cardiology, 
Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2WB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Statistics, Wolfson Laboratory, Old Queen Elizabeth Hospital,
Birmingham, B15 2TH, United Kingdom. (4)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology
and Metabolism, University of Oxford, Churchill Hospital, Headington, Oxford, OX3
7LJ, United Kingdom. (5)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism,
University of Oxford, Churchill Hospital, Headington, Oxford, OX3 7LJ, United
Kingdom; Oxford National Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research
Centre, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, OX3 7LG, United Kingdom. (6)Department of
Nephrology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2WB, United
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with accelerated
cardiovascular disease and heart failure. Endothelial nitric oxide synthase
(eNOS) Glu298Asp single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotype has been
associated with a worse phenotype amongst patients with established heart failure
and in patients with progression of their renal disease. The association of a
cardiac functional difference in non-dialysis CKD patients with no known previous
heart failure, and eNOS gene variant is investigated.
METHODS: 140 non-dialysis CKD patients, who had cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) 
imaging and tissue doppler echocardiography as part of two clinical trials, were 
genotyped for eNOS Glu298Asp SNP retrospectively.
RESULTS: The median estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was 50mls/min and
left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 74% with no overt diastolic
dysfunction in this cohort. There were significant differences in LVEF across
eNOS genotypes with GG genotype being associated with a worse LVEF compared to
other genotypes (LVEF: GG 71%, TG 76%, TT 73%, p = 0.006). After multivariate
analysis, (adjusting for age, eGFR, baseline mean arterial pressure, contemporary
CMR heart rate, total cholesterol, high sensitive C-reactive protein, body mass
index and gender) GG genotype was associated with a worse LVEF, and increased LV 
end-diastolic and systolic index (p = 0.004, 0.049 and 0.009 respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: eNOS Glu298Asp rs1799983 polymorphism in CKD patients is associated 
with relevant sub-clinical cardiac remodelling as detected by CMR. This gene
variant may therefore represent an important genetic biomarker, and possibly
highlight pathways for intervention, in these patients who are at particular risk
of worsening cardiac disease as their renal dysfunction progresses.

PMCID: PMC4303420
PMID: 25612295  [PubMed - in process]


851. PLoS One. 2015 Jan 21;10(1):e0116040. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0116040.
eCollection 2015.

Generation of silver standard concept annotations from biomedical texts with
special relevance to phenotypes.

Oellrich A(1), Collier N(2), Smedley D(1), Groza T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, CB10
1SA, United Kingdom. (2)EMBL European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust
Genome Campus, Hinxton, CB10 1SD, United Kingdom; National Institute of
Informatics, Tokyo 101-8430, Japan. (3)School of ITEE, The University of
Queensland, St. Lucia, QLD 4072, Australia; Garvan Institute of Medical Research,
384 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, NSW 2010, Australia.

Electronic health records and scientific articles possess differing linguistic
characteristics that may impact the performance of natural language processing
tools developed for one or the other. In this paper, we investigate the
performance of four extant concept recognition tools: the clinical Text Analysis 
and Knowledge Extraction System (cTAKES), the National Center for Biomedical
Ontology (NCBO) Annotator, the Biomedical Concept Annotation System (BeCAS) and
MetaMap. Each of the four concept recognition systems is applied to four
different corpora: the i2b2 corpus of clinical documents, a PubMed corpus of
Medline abstracts, a clinical trails corpus and the ShARe/CLEF corpus. In
addition, we assess the individual system performances with respect to one gold
standard annotation set, available for the ShARe/CLEF corpus. Furthermore, we
built a silver standard annotation set from the individual systems' output and
assess the quality as well as the contribution of individual systems to the
quality of the silver standard. Our results demonstrate that mainly the NCBO
annotator and cTAKES contribute to the silver standard corpora (F1-measures in
the range of 21% to 74%) and their quality (best F1-measure of 33%), independent 
from the type of text investigated. While BeCAS and MetaMap can contribute to the
precision of silver standard annotations (precision of up to 42%), the F1-measure
drops when combined with NCBO Annotator and cTAKES due to a low recall. In
conclusion, the performances of individual systems need to be improved
independently from the text types, and the leveraging strategies to best take
advantage of individual systems' annotations need to be revised. The textual
content of the PubMed corpus, accession numbers for the clinical trials corpus,
and assigned annotations of the four concept recognition systems as well as the
generated silver standard annotation sets are available from
http://purl.org/phenotype/resources. The textual content of the ShARe/CLEF
(https://sites.google.com/site/shareclefehealth/data) and i2b2
(https://i2b2.org/NLP/DataSets/) corpora needs to be requested with the
individual corpus providers.

PMCID: PMC4301805
PMID: 25607983  [PubMed - in process]


852. Psychosomatics. 2015 January - February;56(1):21-35. doi:
10.1016/j.psym.2014.09.006. Epub 2014 Sep 16.

Risk Factors for Alcohol Relapse Following Orthotopic Liver Transplantation: A
Systematic Review.

Rustad JK(1), Stern TA(2), Prabhakar M(3), Musselman D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurosciences, University of South
Florida Morsani College of Medicine, Tampa, FL (JKR). Electronic address:
jkrustad@health.usf.edu. (2)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA (TAS). (3)Department of
Epidemiology, Robert Stempel College of Public Health & Social Work, Florida
International University, Miami, FL (MP). (4)Department of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, University of Miami Leonard H. Miller School of Medicine,
Miami, FL (DM).

BACKGROUND: Each year, 5000-6000 individuals undergo orthotopic liver
transplantation (OLT) in the United States, and of these, nearly 18% have
alcoholic liver disease. Relapse to alcohol occurs in more than 40% of patients
with OLT for alcoholic liver disease.
OBJECTIVES: We sought to identify factors that predict relapse to alcohol or
medication nonadherence following OLT in patients with alcoholic liver disease
and to review what randomized clinical interventions have addressed these factors
following OLT. Our hypothesis was that there would be factors before and after
OLT that predict relapse to alcohol following OLT, and that these, if targeted,
might improve sobriety and associated outcomes of adherence with medications and 
appointments.
METHODS: We performed a review (focusing on articles published since 2004) with
PubMed and MEDLINE searches using the following search terms: liver
transplantation, recidivism, alcohol relapse, and predictors of alcohol relapse. 
We supplemented the online searches with manual reviews of article reference
lists and selected relevant articles for further review by author consensus.
RESULTS: In largely white populations, prospective studies document that shorter 
length of pretransplantation sobriety is a significant predictor of time to first
drink and time to binge use. Presence of psychiatric comorbidity, high score on
standardized High-risk Alcoholism Relapse Scale, and diagnosis of Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (Fourth Edition) alcohol dependence are
predictive of posttransplantation alcohol relapse. Pretransplantation alcohol use
history variables (e.g., family history of alcoholism) reliably discriminate
between complete abstainers and those who drink, while medical and psychosocial
characteristics at early post-liver transplantation period (e.g., more bodily
pain) maximally discriminate patterns of alcohol use. Alcoholic individuals with 
early-onset, rapidly accelerating moderate use and early-onset, continuously
increasing heavy use have more than double the prevalence of steatohepatitis or
rejection on biopsy and graft failure and more frequent mortality resulting from 
recurrent alcoholic liver disease than late-onset (i.e., peak of heaviest
drinking at 6y posttransplantation) alcohol users do. Fortunately,
pretransplantation screening combined with a structured pretransplantation
management program and a 12-step program attendance reduced recidivism. No
randomized clinical trials have been performed that target pretransplantation
risk factors in individuals with alcoholic liver disease before or after OLT to
improve post-OLT outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Recent research findings suggest that screening can reveal
individuals who are vulnerable to alcohol relapse and targeted intervention can
prevent their relapse to alcohol. Based on existing addiction treatments (e.g.,
relapse prevention plan construction), randomized clinical trials tailored to
post-OLT patients should be conducted to improve their survival and quality of
life.

Copyright © 2014 The Academy of Psychosomatic Medicine. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25619671  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


853. Recenti Prog Med. 2015 Jan;106(1):28-31. doi: 10.1701/1740.18954.

[Cancer-related fatigue].

[Article in Italian]

Fatigoni S, Fumi G, Roila F.

Cancer-related fatigue (CRF) is a very common and distressing symptom experienced
by most cancer patients, during and after treatments and also at the end of life.
There is no accepted definition of CRF, because it is a multifaceted symptom that
involves multiple biopsychosocial aspects. Several scales for assessing CRF have 
been used, unidimensional or multidimensional, but there is no agreement
regarding the best instrument to measure CRF. Concerning the CRF treatment,
pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic interventions have been used. Pharmacologic
therapies have been evaluated in few randomized clinical trials: corticosteroids 
demonstrated a superior efficacy to the placebo in terminal cancer patients;
psychostimulants (methylfenidate, dexamphetamine, modafinil), antidepressant
(paroxetine), acetilcholinesterase inhibitors (donepezil), l-carnitine and
coenzyme Q(10) generally have reported negative results. Non-pharmacologic
interventions (physical exercise, psychosocial interventions and other
integrative interventions, such as yoga, ginseng, acupuncture) have been
evaluated in several randomized and non-randomized studies, but with many
methodological limitations. Therefore, the most effective non-pharmacological
intervention remains unclear and the effect sizes are small. Further research is 
needed to delineate the optimal definition, measurement and treatment of CRF.

PMID: 25621777  [PubMed - in process]


854. Recenti Prog Med. 2015 Jan;106(1):23-7. doi: 10.1701/1740.18952.

[The cancer treatment in elderly patients: evidence and clinical research].

[Article in Italian]

Repetto L, Luciani A.

In 2020 the percentage of patients with a diagnosis of cancer in people with more
than 65 years will exceed 70% and 28% in ethnic minorities. The treatment of
cancer in these populations is challenging for the oncologists due to
socio-economic issues such as poverty, reduced access to the hospital care, level
of education. The clinical pathway "diagnosis-treatment-cure", typical of the
care of young patients has to be integrated in elderly patients with a more
individualized treatment by means of comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA).
IADL (Instrumental Activities of Daily Living) have the best predictive role in
oncological setting and their impairment significantly correlate with overall
survival, chemotherapy toxicities and thirty days postoperative morbidities. The 
CGA is universally accepted as the most appropriate instrument to analitically
evaluate the age related problems of elderly patients. The role of CGA is crucial
to identify geriatric issues not easily diagnosed, to predict treatment
toxicities, functional or cognitive decline, post operative complications and to 
estimate life expectancy. The CGA items are predictive of severe toxicity,
however it is not clearly established which are the best performers and the best 
cut-offs points. Today CGA is integrated with physical performance tests (the
most widely used is the "time up and go" test) and laboratory assay of
Interleukin 6 and D-Dimer that correlate with mortality and physical decline.
There are few prospective studies that evaluated the role of CGA in treatment
choice. The first is a phase II study in solid tumors, the second is a
haematological trial on non Hodgkin lymphoma. The largest trial is a 571 patients
observational series that confirmed the role of CGA in decision making. The
administration of CGA is time consuming and consequently some screening tools
were developed. VES-13 is a 13 items tool that explores prevalently the
functional status and the self reported health status. VES-13 showed a good
sensibility (87.3%) but a low specificity (62%) with respect to CGA for the
diagnosis of patients with disabilities. Overcash et al. proposed an abbreviated 
form of CGA using a reduced number of items of ADL, IADL, MMSE and GDS. There was
a good correlation between complete and reduced scales (coefficient of
correlation 0.8). G8 is a screening tool composed of 8 questions that explore
functional, cognitive and nutritional status. The score with the best equilibrium
between sensibility and specificity was 14 (sensibility 85% and specificity 65%).
In the first observational trial age, hystotype, chemotherapy dose, haemoglobin
(man: 11 g/dL; women: 10 g/dL), creatinine clearance less than 34 mL/min
(Jelliffe formula), earing problems, at least a fall in the last six months,
walking problems, low social activity, were related to a major risk of toxicity; 
in another trial IADL, diastolic blood pressure, LDH and MAX2 index were
predictive of haematological toxicity, while performance status, Mini-Mental
Status score, Mini-Nutritional Assessment (MNA) score and MAX2 index were
predictive of non haematological toxicity. Based on these parameters a 0-2 score 
was developed. A recent "position article" of EORTC (European organization for
Research and Treatment of Cancer) and SIOG analyzed the pro and the contra of the
use of some indicators in elderly patients. The overall survival (OS) frequently 
used in classical clinical trial could give wrong messages as there are some
competitive risks of death in elderly patients. Another important indicator is
the disease specific survival (DSS). Concerning the design of clinical trials, a 
possible strategy is to enrol elderly patients without upper age limit and to
plan stratification. An interesting trial design is the so called "extended
trial" that allow to re-open the arm of a trial in which a too low number of
older patients was enrolled.

PMID: 25621776  [PubMed - in process]


855. ScientificWorldJournal. 2015;2015:970730. Epub 2015 Jan 13.

Efficacy of Adjunctive Treatments Added to Olanzapine or Clozapine for Weight
Control in Patients with Schizophrenia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Choi YJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Red Cross College of Nursing, Chung-Ang University, 84 Heukseok-Dong,
Dongjak-Gu, Seoul 156-756, Republic of Korea.

Objectives. This study was conducted to review systematically adjunctive
treatments for weight reduction in patients with schizophrenia and compare
efficacies of clinical trials through meta-analysis, so as to provide effective
clinical guideline regarding weight control for patients taking atypical
antipsychotics. Methods. Candidate clinical trials were identified through
searching the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed, and
PsycINFO. Fourteen randomized clinical trials were included for systematic review
and meta-analysis from 132 potential trials. The Comprehensive Meta-Analysis
version 2 was used for meta-analysis. Results. Difference in means and
significances from meta-analyses regarding weight control by adjunctive
treatments showed that topiramate, aripiprazole, or sibutramine was more
effective than metformin or reboxetine. Psychiatric evaluations did not show
statistically significant changes between treatment groups and placebo groups
except topiramate adjunctive treatments. Adverse effects regarding adjunctive
therapies were tolerable and showed statistically no significances compared to
control groups. Conclusion. Though having several reports related to exacerbation
of psychiatric symptoms, topiramate and aripiprazole are more efficacious than
other medications in regard to weight reduction and less burden of critical
adverse effects as well as being beneficial for clinical improvement.

PMCID: PMC4310265
PMID: 25664341  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


856. Sociol Health Illn. 2015 Jan;37(1):127-42. doi: 10.1111/1467-9566.12185.

Stopped hearts, amputated toes and NASA: contemporary legends among healthy
volunteers in US phase I clinical trials.

Fisher JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Social Medicine and Center for Bioethics, University of North
Carolina, North Carolina, USA.

The first stage of testing new pharmaceuticals in humans is referred to as a
phase I clinical trial. The purpose of these studies is to test the safety of the
drugs and to establish appropriate doses that can later be given to patients.
Most of these studies are conducted under controlled, in-patient conditions using
healthy volunteers who are paid for their participation. To explore healthy
volunteers' experiences in clinical trials, an ethnographic study was conducted
at six in-patient phase I clinics in the USA. In addition to the observation of
clinic activities (from informed consent procedures to dosing to blood draws),
268 semi-structured interviews were conducted, 33 with clinic staff and 235 with 
healthy volunteers. Drawing on this dataset, this article explores healthy
volunteers' exchange of contemporary legends about phase I clinical trials. In
addition to potentially scaring the listener and communicating distrust in the
medical community, these incredible stories help participants cope with perceived
stigma and establish a gradient of risk of trial participation, creating
potential boundaries to their participation in medical research. The article
argues that contemporary legends play a productive role in society, shaping how
people view themselves and others and influencing their decisions about risky
activities.

© 2015 The Author. Sociology of Health & Illness © 2015 Foundation for the
Sociology of Health & Illness/John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMID: 25601069  [PubMed - in process]


857. Springerplus. 2015 Feb 5;4:62. doi: 10.1186/s40064-015-0855-4. eCollection 2015.

CHAracteristics of research studies that iNfluence practice: a GEneral survey of 
Canadian orthopaedic Surgeons (CHANGES): a pilot survey.

de Sa D(1), Thornley P(2), Evaniew N(1), Madden K(3), Bhandari M(4), Ghert M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Department of Surgery, McMaster University,
HHS Hamilton General Hospital, 237 Barton Street, Hamilton, ON Canada L8L 2X2.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Michael G. DeGroote School of Medicine, McMaster
University, Hamilton, ON Canada. (3)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and
Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario Canada. (4)Division of
Orthopaedic Surgery, Department of Surgery, McMaster University, HHS Hamilton
General Hospital, 237 Barton Street, Hamilton, ON Canada L8L 2X2 ; Department of 
Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Evidence Based Medicine (EBM) is increasingly being applied to inform
clinical decision-making in orthopaedic surgery. Despite the promotion of EBM in 
Orthopaedic Surgery, the adoption of results from high quality clinical research 
seems highly unpredictable and does not appear to be driven strictly by
randomized trial data. The objective of this study was to pilot a survey to
determine if we could identify surgeon opinions on the characteristics of
research studies that are perceived as being most likely to influence clinical
decision-making among orthopaedic surgeons in Canada.
METHODS: A 28-question electronic survey was distributed to active members of the
Canadian Orthopaedic Association (COA) over a period of 11 weeks. The
questionnaire sought to analyze the influence of both extrinsic and intrinsic
characteristics of research studies and their potential to influence practice
patterns. Extrinsic factors included the perceived journal quality and
investigator profiles, economic impact, peer/patient/industry influence and
individual surgeon residency/fellowship training experiences. Intrinsic factors
included study design, sample size, and outcomes reported. Descriptive statistics
are provided.
RESULTS: Of the 109 members of the COA who opened the survey, 95 (87%) completed 
the survey in its entirety. The overall response rate was 11% (95/841). Surgeons 
achieved consensus on the influence of three key designs on their practices: 1)
randomized controlled trials 94 (99%), 2) meta-analysis 83 (87%), and 3)
systematic reviews 81 (85%). Sixty-seven percent of surgeons agreed that studies 
with sample sizes of 101-500 or more were more likely to influence clinical
practice than smaller studies (n = <100). Factors other than design influencing
adoption included 1) reputation of the investigators (99%) and 2) perceived
quality of the journal (75%).
CONCLUSION: Although study design and sample size (i.e. minimum of 100 patients) 
have some influence on clinical decision making, surgeon respondents are equally 
influenced by investigator reputation and perceived journal quality. At present, 
continued emphasis on the generation of large, methodologically sound clinical
trials remains paramount to translating research findings to clinical practice
changes. Specific to this pilot survey, strategies to solicit more widespread
responses will be pursued.

PMID: 25674510  [PubMed]


858. Swiss Med Wkly. 2015 Feb 4;145:w14066. doi: 10.4414/smw.2015.14066. eCollection
2015.

Cancer immunology - development of novel anti-cancer therapies.

Rothschild SI(1), Thommen DS(2), Moersig W(3), Müller P(4), Zippelius A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department Internal Medicine, Medical Oncology, University Hospital Basel,
Switzerland. (2)Department Internal Medicine, Medical Oncology, University
Hospital Basel, Switzerland, and Department of Biomedicine, Cancer Immunology &
Biology, University Basel, Switzerland. (3)Division of Thoracic Surgery,
Department of Surgery, Unversity Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Biomedicine, Cancer Immunology & Biology, University Basel,
Switzerland. (5)a Department Internal Medicine, Medical Oncology, University
Hospital Basel, Switzerland, and Department of Biomedicine, Cancer Immunology &
Biology, University Basel, Switzerland.

The vast majority of tumours are characterised by high frequencies of genetic and
epigenetic alterations resulting in tumour-specific antigens, which may, in
principle, be recognised by cytotoxic T cells. Though early clinical
immunotherapy trials have yielded mixed results with ambiguous clinical benefit, 
cancer immunotherapy is now attracting increasing attention as a viable
therapeutic option, mainly in melanoma and lung cancer, but increasingly also in 
other malignancies. In particular, recent therapeutic efforts targeting
inhibitory receptors on T cells to overcome tumour-induced immune dysfunction
have the potential to reshape current treatment standards in oncology. The
clinical development has been pioneered by the antibody ipilimumab, which blocks 
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and has demonstrated
survival benefit in two randomised landmark trials in melanoma. Capitalising on
this success, the research on the clinical implication of T cell checkpoint
inhibition has been boosted. Early clinical trials have demonstrated meaningful
response rates, sustained clinical benefits with encouraging survival rates and
good tolerability of next-generation checkpoint inhibitors, including programmed 
death-1 (PD-1) and programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors, across multiple 
cancer types. Attractive perspectives include the concurrent blockade of
immunological (non-redundant) checkpoints, which has recently been demonstrated
using combinations of immune checkpoint modulators themselves or with other
therapies, such as chemotherapy, targeted therapy or radiotherapy. This article
summarises the mechanism of action and subsequent clinical studies of immune
checkpoint antibodies in oncology with a particular focus on melanoma and lung
cancer.

PMID: 25668078  [PubMed - in process]


859. Transl Vis Sci Technol. 2015 Jan 22;4(1):5. eCollection 2015.

Reproducibility of Optovue RTVue Optical Coherence Tomography Retinal Thickness
Measurements and Conversion to Equivalent Zeiss Stratus Metrics in Diabetic
Macular Edema.

Bressler SB(1), Edwards AR(2), Andreoli CM(3), Edwards PA(4), Glassman AR(2),
Jaffe GJ(5), Melia M(2), Sun JK(6); for the Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical
Research Network/Writing Committee.

Author information: 
(1)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
MD, USA. (2)Jaeb Center for Health Research, Tampa, FL, USA. (3)Harvard Vanguard 
Medical Associates, Harvard Medical School, Department of Ophthalmology, Boston, 
MA, USA. (4)Henry Ford Health System, Department of Ophthalmology and Eye Care
Services. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(6)Department of Ophthalmology, Joslin Diabetes Center, Beetham Eye Institute,
Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the reproducibility of central subfield thickness (CST) and 
volume measurements from optical coherence tomography (OCT) images obtained with 
Zeiss Stratus and Optovue RTVue, and formulate equations to convert these
measurements from RTVue to 'equivalent' Stratus values.
METHODS: Cross-sectional observational study from 309 eyes of 167 participants
with diabetes and at least one eye with central-involved diabetic macular edema
(DME; Stratus CST ≥ 250 μm) that underwent two replicate Stratus scans followed
by two replicate RTVue scans centered on the fovea.
RESULTS: The Bland-Altman coefficient of repeatability for relative change in CST
(the degree of change that could be expected from measurement variability) was
not significantly different on Stratus and RTVue scans (10% and 16%,
respectively). The replicate Stratus CST was within 10% of the initial Stratus
measurement 93% of the time; the CST conversion equation predicted a Stratus
value calculated from the observed RTVue value within 10% of the observed Stratus
thickness 91% of the time. Bland-Altman limit of agreement for relative change in
CST between measurements observed on different machines was 23%, comparing
predicted versus actual Stratus measurement.
CONCLUSIONS: RTVue thickness reproducibility appears similar to Stratus.
Conversion equations to transform RTVue measurements to Stratus-equivalent values
within 10% of the observed Stratus RT are feasible. CST changes greater than 10% 
when using the same machine or 20% when switching from Stratus to RTVue, after
conversion to Stratus equivalents, are likely due to a true change beyond
measurement error.
TRANSLATIONAL RELEVANCE: Conversion equations to translate central retinal
thickness measurements between OCT instruments is critical to clinical trials.

PMCID: PMC4306266
PMID: 25635237  [PubMed]


860. Tuberc Respir Dis (Seoul). 2015 Jan;78(1):36-40. doi: 10.4046/trd.2015.78.1.36.
Epub 2015 Jan 29.

A case of advanced malignant pleural mesothelioma treatment with chemotherapy and
photodynamic therapy.

Ryu JW(1), Kim YS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Dankook University College 
of Medicine, Cheonan, Korea. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Dankook
University College of Medicine, Cheonan, Korea.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an aggressive, treatment-resistant, and
generally fatal disease. A 68-year-old male who was diagnosed with MPM at another
hospital came to our hospital with dyspnea. We advised him to take combination
chemotherapy but he refused to take the treatment. That was because he had
already received chemotherapy with supportive care at another hospital but his
condition worsened. Thus, we recommended photodynamic therapy (PDT) to deal with 
the dyspnea and MPM. After PDT, the dyspnea improved and the patient then decided
to take the combination chemotherapy. Our patient received chemotherapy using
pemetrexed/cisplatin. Afterwards, he received a single PDT treatment and then
later took chemotherapy using gemcitabine/cisplatin. The patient showed a
survival time of 27 months, which is longer than median survival time in advanced
MPM patients. Further research and clinical trials are needed to demonstrate any 
synergistic effect between the combination chemotherapy and PDT.

PMCID: PMC4311034
PMID: 25653696  [PubMed]


861. Value Health. 2015 Jan;18(1):1-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2014.10.001.

Can we use social media to support content validity of patient-reported outcome
instruments in medical product development?

Rothman M(1), Gnanaskathy A(2), Wicks P(3), Papadopoulos EJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, Raritan, NJ, USA.
Electronic address: mrothman@its.jnj.com. (2)Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation. (3)PatientsLikeMe. (4)Food and Drug Administration, Center for Drug 
Evaluation and Research, Office of New Drugs, Study Endpoints and Labeling
Development.

We report a panel designed to open a dialog between pharmaceutical sponsors,
regulatory reviewers, and other stakeholders regarding the use of social media to
collect data to support the content validity of patient-reported outcome
instruments in the context of medical product labeling. Multiple stakeholder
perspectives were brought together to better understand the issues encountered in
pursuing social media as a form of data collection to support content validity.
Presenters represented a pharmaceutical sponsor of clinical trials, a regulatory 
reviewer from the Food and Drug Administration, and an online data platform
provider. Each presenter shared its perspective on the advantages and
disadvantages of using social media to collect this type of information. There
was consensus that there is great potential for using social media for this
purpose. There remain, however, unanswered questions that need to be addressed
such as identifying which type of social media is most appropriate for data
collection and ensuring that participants are representative of the target
population while maintaining the advantages of anonymity provided by online
platforms. The use of social media to collect evidence of content validity holds 
much promise. Clarification of issues that need to be addressed and accumulation 
of empirical evidence to address these questions are essential to moving forward.

Copyright © 2015 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25595228  [PubMed - in process]


862. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2015 Jan 30;11:117-123.

The role of factor Xa inhibitors in venous thromboembolism treatment.

Cabral KP(1), Ansell JE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health
Sciences, Albany, NY, USA. (2)Hofstra-North Shore/LIJ School of Medicine,
Hempstead, NY, USA.

Three factor Xa inhibitors have been studied in the treatment of venous
thromboembolism, both for acute therapy and as extended therapy to prevent
recurrent events. Rivaroxaban, apixaban, and edoxaban have all proven to be
effective in Phase III clinical trials for this indication when compared to
current standard of therapy with similar or less bleeding. Nevertheless, the
agents all offer different pharmacological profiles, which have an impact on
patient selection and potential advantages in clinical practice.

PMID: 25673997  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


863. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2015 Jan 28;11:107-116.

Long-term insulin glargine therapy in type 2 diabetes mellitus: a focus on
cardiovascular outcomes.

Joseph JJ(1), Donner TW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of mortality in type 2 diabetes
mellitus. Hyperinsulinemia is associated with increased cardiovascular risk, but 
the effects of exogenous insulin on cardiovascular disease progression have been 
less well studied. Insulin has been shown to have both cardioprotective and
atherosclerosis-promoting effects in laboratory animal studies. Long-term
clinical trials using insulin to attain improved diabetes control in younger type
1 and type 2 diabetes patients have shown improved cardiovascular outcomes.
Shorter trials of intensive diabetes control with high insulin use in higher risk
patients with type 2 diabetes have shown either no cardiovascular benefit or
increased all cause and cardiovascular mortality. Glargine insulin is a basal
insulin analog widely used to treat patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
This review focuses on the effects of glargine on cardiovascular outcomes.
Glargine lowers triglycerides, leads to a modest weight gain, causes less
hypoglycemia when compared with intermediate-acting insulin, and has a neutral
effect on blood pressure. The Outcome Reduction With Initial Glargine
Intervention (ORIGIN trial), a 6.2 year dedicated cardiovascular outcomes trial
of glargine demonstrated no increased cardiovascular risk.

PMCID: PMC4315664
PMID: 25657589  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


864. World J Plast Surg. 2015 Jan;4(1):3-8.

Regenerative potential of endometrial stem cells: a mini review.

Ghobadi F(1), Mehrabani D(1), Mehrabani G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell and Transgenic Technology Research Center, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

Recent findings in stem cell biology have opened a new window in regenerative
medicine. The endometrium possesses mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) called
endometrial stem cells (EnSCs) having specific regenerative properties linked to 
adult stem cells. They contribute in tissue remodeling and engineering and were
shown to have immuno-modulating effects. Many clinical trials were undertaken to 
ascertain the therapeutic potential of EnSCS. In this mini review, we showed that
EnSCs are readily available sources of adult stem cells in the uterus that can be
highlighted for their renewable multipotent and differentiation properties. This 
cell population may be a practical solution of choice in reproductive biology,
regenerative medicine and autologous stem cell therapy.

PMCID: PMC4298858
PMID: 25606470  [PubMed]


865. Z Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan;53(1):21-27. Epub 2015 Jan 16.

Assessment and monitoring of liver function by 13C-aminopyrine breath test after 
selective transarterial chemoembolisation of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Schütte K(1), Seidensticker R(2), Milbradt O(1), Bornschein J(1), Kandulski A(1),
Pech M(2), Kropf S(3), Ricke J(2), Malfertheiner P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Gastroenterologie, Hepatologie & Infektiologie,
Universitätsklinikum Magdeburg A. ö. R. (2)Klinik für Radiologie und
Nuklearmedizin, Universitätsklinikum Magdeburg A. ö. R. (3)Institut für Biometrie
und Medizinische Informatik, Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg.

Background: Liver function and tumor staging are essential parameters for
selection of treatment modalities in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC). Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is associated with a risk of
deterioration of liver function. In clinical routine hepatic function in patients
with liver cirrhosis is assessed by the Child-Pugh-classification. Dynamic breath
tests allow the assessment of the hepatic functional mass and have the potential 
to give more accurate information on hepatic function periinterventionally.
Patients and Methods: A prospective clinical study was performed in 13 patients
receiving a total of 18 TACE sessions. (13)C-aminopyrine breath test was
performed the day before TACE, 2 days and 30 days after TACE and correlated with 
standard laboratory work-up of the patients. Results: Fourteen TACE sessions were
performed in Child A liver cirrhosis, 4 in Child B cirrhosis. All patients
presented with impaired aminopyrine metabolism at baseline. No significant
changes in the (13)C aminopyrine breath test following TACE were observed. Two
patients treated in Child A cirrhosis decompensated to Child B, one of them
recovered. No further decompensation was observed in patients treated in Child B 
cirrhosis. Discussion and conclusion: Liver function assessment with
(13)C-aminopyrine breath test and Child-Pugh-classification following TACE was
discordant in a large proportion of patients. Whether a quantification of
mitochondrial liver function in patients planned to undergo locoregional
treatment of HCC in liver cirrhosis is helpful in the prediction of
postprocedural liver decompensation needs to be addressed in larger prospective
clinical trials.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

PMID: 25594703  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


866. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2014 Dec 31. pii: S0927-7765(14)00724-3. doi:
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2014.12.037. [Epub ahead of print]

One-step synthesized immunostimulatory oligonucleotides-functionalized quantum
dots for simultaneous enhanced immunogenicity and cell imaging.

Tao Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Ju E(1), Ren J(2), Qu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key laboratory of Rare Earth Resources Utilization and Laboratory of
Chemical Biology, Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of
the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun, Jilin
130022, China. (2)State Key laboratory of Rare Earth Resources Utilization and
Laboratory of Chemical Biology, Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry,
Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Changchun, Jilin 130022, China. Electronic address: jren@ciac.ac.cn.

Unmethylated cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) dinucleotides, normally occur in
natural bacterial and viral genomes, show strong immunostimulatory activities to 
invading pathogens and have found widespread applications in both basic research 
and clinical trials. For the first time, we design a simple one-step synthesis of
CpG-functionalized quantum dots (QDs), combining fascinating features of enhanced
immunogenicity and cell imaging. The induction of QDs can greatly increase CpG
uptake ability by TLR9-positive cells and elevate CpG stability against nuclease 
degradation. What is more, the outstanding optical properties also suggest that
the CpG-QDs can serve as promising optical probes for the evaluation of the
cellular uptake efficiency of the CpG motifs. To our best knowledge, this is the 
first report to use a facile one-pot synthesis strategy that allows the
CpG-functionalized QDs to be prepared, which are able to serve as both the potent
platform for immunotherapy and the fluorescent probes for intracellular imaging.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25601091  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


867. Oncotarget. 2014 Dec 31. [Epub ahead of print]

The broad-spectrum anti-DNA virus agent cidofovir inhibits lung metastasis of
virus-independent, FGF2-driven tumors.

Liekens S(1), Noppen S(1), Gijsbers S(1), Sienaert R(1), Ronca R(2), Tobia C(2), 
Presta M(2).

Author information: 
(1)KU Leuven, Rega Institute for Medical Research, Leuven, Belgium. (2)Department
of Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

The FDA-approved anti-DNA virus agent cidofovir (CDV) is being evaluated in phase
II/III clinical trials for the treatment of human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated
tumors. However, previous observations had shown that CDV also inhibits the
growth of vascular tumors induced by fibroblast growth factor-2
(FGF2)-transformed FGF2-T-MAE cells. Here, we demonstrate that CDV inhibits
metastasis induced by FGF2-driven, virus-independent tumor cells. Pre-treatment
of luciferase-expressing FGF2-T-MAE cells with CDV reduced single cell survival
and anchorage-independent growth in vitro and lung metastasis formation upon
intravenous inoculation into SCID mice. This occurred in the absence of any
effect on homing of FGF2-T-MAE cells to the lungs and on the growth of
subconfluent cell cultures or subcutaneous tumors in mice. Accordingly, CDV
protected against lung metastasis when given systemically after tumor cell
injection. Lung metastases in CDV-treated mice showed reduced Ki67 expression and
increased nuclear accumulation of p53, indicating that CDV inhibits metastasis by
affecting single cell survival properties. The anti-metastatic potential of CDV
was confirmed on B16-F10 melanoma cells, both in zebrafish embryos and mice.
These findings suggest that CDV may have therapeutic potential as an
anti-metastatic agent and warrants further study to select those tumor types that
are most likely to benefit from CDV therapy.

PMID: 25609197  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


868. Oncotarget. 2014 Dec 31. [Epub ahead of print]

Functional consequence of the MET-T1010I polymorphism in breast cancer.

Liu S(1), Meric-Bernstam F(2), Parinyanitikul N(3), Wang B(3), Eterovic AK(4),
Zheng X(5), Gagea M(6), Chavez-MacGregor M(3), Ueno NT(7), Lei X(8), Zhou W(5),
Nair L(3), Tripathy D(3), Brown PH(9), Hortobagyi GN(3), Chen K(5), Mendelsohn
J(10), Mills GB(4), Gonzalez-Angulo AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. Department of Systems Biology, The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (2)Department of
Investigational Cancer Therapeutics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, USA. (3)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (4)Department of
Systems Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, 
USA. (5)Department of Bioinformatics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA. (6)Department of Veterinary Medicine, The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (7)Department of Breast
Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX,
USA. Section of Breast Cancer Translational Research, Department of Breast
Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX,
USA. (8)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, USA. (9)Department of Clinical Cancer Prevention, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (10)Department
of Experimental Therapeutics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA.

Major breast cancer predisposition genes, only account for approximately 30% of
high-risk breast cancer families and only explain 15% of breast cancer familial
relative risk. The HGF growth factor receptor MET is potentially functionally
altered due to an uncommon germline single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP),
MET-T1010I, in many cancer lineages including breast cancer where the MET-T1010I 
SNP is present in 2% of patients with metastatic breast cancer. Expression of
MET-T1010I in the context of mammary epithelium increases colony formation, cell 
migration and invasion in-vitro and tumor growth and invasion in-vivo. A
selective effect of MET-T1010I as compared to wild type MET on cell invasion both
in-vitro and in-vivo suggests that the MET-T1010I SNP may alter tumor
pathophysiology and should be considered as a potential biomarker when
implementing MET targeted clinical trials.

PMID: 25605252  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


869. J Subst Abuse Treat. 2014 Dec 30. pii: S0740-5472(14)00256-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jsat.2014.12.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Gender-based outcomes and acceptability of a computer-assisted psychosocial
intervention for substance use disorders.

Campbell AN(1), Nunes EV(2), Pavlicova M(3), Hatch-Maillette M(4), Hu MC(5),
Bailey GL(6), Sugarman DE(7), Miele GM(2), Rieckmann T(8), Shores-Wilson K(9),
Turrigiano E(2), Greenfield SF(7).

Author information: 
(1)Columbia University Department of Psychiatry New York State Psychiatric
Institute, 1051 Riverside Drive, New York, NY 10032, USA; Mount Sinai St. Luke's 
Hospital Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Health, 1111 Amsterdam Ave, New 
York, NY 10025, USA. Electronic address: anc2002@columbia.edu. (2)Columbia
University Department of Psychiatry New York State Psychiatric Institute, 1051
Riverside Drive, New York, NY 10032, USA. (3)Columbia University Mailman School
of Public Health Department of Biostatistics, 722 West 168th Street, 6th Floor,
New York, NY 10032, USA. (4)University of Washington Department of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences and Alcohol and Drug Abuse Institute, 1107 NE 45th Street,
Suite 120, Box 354805, Seattle, WA 98105, USA. (5)Columbia University Medical
Center, Department of Psychiatry, 630 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(6)Stanley Street Treatment and Research Center and Brown University Alpert
Medical School, 386 Stanley St, Fall River, MA 02720, USA. (7)Harvard Medical
School, Department of Psychiatry and McLean Hospital Division of Alcohol and Drug
Abuse, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA 02478, USA. (8)Oregon Health and Science
University School of Medicine, 3181S.W. Sam Jackson Park Rd., Portland, OR 97239,
USA. (9)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center Department of Psychiatry,
5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, TX 75390, USA.

BACKGROUND: Digital technologies show promise for increasing treatment
accessibility and improving quality of care, but little is known about gender
differences. This secondary analysis uses data from a multi-site effectiveness
trial of a computer-assisted behavioral intervention, conducted within NIDA's
National Drug Abuse Clinical Trials Network, to explore gender differences in
intervention acceptability and treatment outcomes.
METHODS: Men (n=314) and women (n=192) were randomly assigned to 12-weeks of
treatment-as-usual (TAU) or modified TAU+Therapeutic Education System (TES),
whereby TES substituted for 2hours of TAU per week. TES is composed of 62
Web-delivered, multimedia modules, covering skills for achieving and maintaining 
abstinence plus prize-based incentives contingent on abstinence and treatment
adherence. Outcomes were: (1) abstinence from drugs and heavy drinking in the
last 4weeks of treatment, (2) retention, (3) social functioning, and (4) drug and
alcohol craving. Acceptability was the mean score across five indicators (i.e.,
interesting, useful, novel, easy to understand, and satisfaction).
RESULTS: Gender did not moderate the effect of treatment on any outcome. Women
reported higher acceptability scores at week 4 (p=.02), but no gender differences
were detected at weeks 8 or 12. Acceptability was positively associated with
abstinence, but only among women (p=.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest that men and women derive similar benefits from
participating in a computer-assisted intervention, a promising outcome as
technology-based treatments expand. Acceptability was associated with abstinence 
outcomes among women. Future research should explore characteristics of women who
report less satisfaction with this modality of treatment and ways to improve
overall acceptability.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25613105  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


870. J Subst Abuse Treat. 2014 Dec 30. pii: S0740-5472(14)00257-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jsat.2014.12.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Cigarette Smoking During Substance Use Disorder Treatment: Secondary Outcomes
from a National Drug Abuse Treatment Clinical Trials Network study.

McClure EA(1), Campbell AN(2), Pavlicova M(3), Hu M(4), Winhusen T(5), Vandrey
RG(6), Ruglass LM(7), Covey LS(4), Stitzer ML(6), Kyle TL(8), Nunes EV(4).

Author information: 
(1)Medical University of South Carolina School of Medicine, 67 President St.,
Charleston, SC, 29425, United States. Electronic address: mccluree@musc.edu.
(2)Columbia University Department of Psychiatry, New York State Psychiatric
Institute, 1051 Riverside Drive, New York, NY 10032, United States; Mount Sinai
St. Luke's Hospital, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Health, 1111
Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY 10025, United States. (3)Department of
Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health, CUMC, Columbia University, 722W. 
168th street, New York, NY 10032, United States. (4)Columbia University
Department of Psychiatry, New York State Psychiatric Institute, 1051 Riverside
Drive, New York, NY 10032, United States. (5)Addiction Sciences Division,
Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of Cincinnati
College of Medicine, 3131 Harvey Avenue, Cincinnati, OH 45229, United States.
(6)Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, 5510 Nathan Shock Dr.,
Baltimore, MD 21224, United States. (7)The City College of New York, CUNY, 160
Convent Avenue, New York, NY 10031, United States. (8)Aspire Health Partners,
5151 Adanson St., Orlando, FL 32804, United States.

INTRODUCTION: The majority of patients enrolled in treatment for substance use
disorders (SUDs) also use tobacco. Many will continue to use tobacco even during 
abstinence from other drugs and alcohol, often leading to smoking-related
illnesses. Despite this, little research has been conducted to assess the
influence of being a smoker on SUD treatment outcomes and changes in smoking
during a treatment episode.
METHODS: In this secondary analysis, cigarette smoking was evaluated in
participants completing outpatient SUD treatment as part of a multi-site study
conducted by the National Drug Abuse Treatment Clinical Trials Network. Analyses 
included the assessment of changes in smoking and nicotine dependence via the
Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence during the 12-week study among all
smokers (aim #1), specifically among those in the experimental treatment group
(aim #2), and the moderating effect of being a smoker on treatment outcomes (aim 
#3).
RESULTS: Participants generally did not reduce or quit smoking throughout the
course of the study. Among a sub-set of participants with higher baseline
nicotine dependence scores randomized to the control arm, scores at the end of
treatment were lower compared to the experimental arm, though measures of smoking
quantity did not appear to decrease. Further, being a smoker was associated with 
poorer treatment outcomes compared to non-smokers enrolled in the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides evidence that patients enrolled in
community-based SUD treatment continue to smoke, even when abstaining from drugs 
and alcohol. These results add to the growing literature encouraging the
implementation of targeted, evidence-based interventions to promote abstinence
from tobacco among SUD treatment patients.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25595301  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


871. Neurobiol Aging. 2014 Dec 30. pii: S0197-4580(14)00839-2. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.11.022. [Epub ahead of print]

Tau immunization: a cautionary tale?

Mably AJ(1), Kanmert D(1), Mc Donald JM(1), Liu W(1), Caldarone BJ(2), Lemere
CA(1), O'Nuallain B(1), Kosik KS(3), Walsh DM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Research, Ann Romney Center for Neurologic
Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School,
Harvard Institutes of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA. (2)Neurobehaviour Laboratory
Core, Harvard NeuroDiscovery Center, Boston, MA, USA. (3)Department of Molecular,
Cellular and Developmental Biology, Neuroscience Research Institute, University
of California, Santa Barbara, CA, USA. (4)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative
Research, Ann Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital
and Harvard Medical School, Harvard Institutes of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
Electronic address: dwalsh3@partners.org.

The amyloid β (Aβ)-protein and microtubule-associated protein, tau, are the major
components of the amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles that typify
Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. As such both Aβ and tau have long been
proposed as therapeutic targets. Immunotherapy, particularly targeting Aβ, is
currently the most advanced clinical strategy for treating AD. However, several
Aβ-directed clinical trials have failed, and there is concern that targeting this
protein may not be useful. In contrast, there is a growing optimism that tau
immunotherapy may prove more efficacious. Here, for the first time, we studied
the effects of chronic administration of an anti-tau monoclonal antibody (5E2) in
amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. For our animal model, we chose the J20
mouse line because prior studies had shown that the cognitive deficits in these
mice require expression of tau. Despite the fact that 5E2 was present and active 
in the brains of immunized mice and that this antibody appeared to engage with
extracellular tau, 5E2-treatment did not recover age-dependent spatial reference 
memory deficits. These results indicate that the memory impairment evident in J20
mice is unlikely to be mediated by a form of extracellular tau recognized by 5E2.
In addition to the lack of positive effect of anti-tau immunotherapy, we also
documented a significant increase in mortality among J20 mice that received 5E2. 
Because both the J20 mice used here and tau transgenic mice used in prior tau
immunotherapy trials are imperfect models of AD our results recommend extensive
preclinical testing of anti-tau antibody-based therapies using multiple mouse
models and a variety of different anti-tau antibodies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25619661  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


872. Oncotarget. 2014 Dec 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Upregulation of miR-328 and inhibition of CREB-DNA-binding activity are critical 
for resveratrol-mediated suppression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and subsequent
metastatic ability in human osteosarcomas.

Yang SF(1), Lee WJ(2), Tan P(3), Tang CH(4), Hsiao M(5), Hsieh FK(6), Chien
MH(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
Department of Medical Research, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung,
Taiwan. (2)Department of Urology, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University,
Taipei, Taiwan. (3)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. (4)Graduate Institute of Basic Medical
Science, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan. (5)The Genomics Research
Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan. (6)Experimental Surgery and Regenerative
Medicine, Department of Surgery, Ludwig-Maximilians University, Munich, Germany. 
(7)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical
University, Taipei, Taiwan. Department of Medical Education and Research, Wan
Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Osteosarcomas, the most common malignant bone tumors, show a potent capacity for 
local invasion and pulmonary metastasis. Resveratrol (RESV), a phytochemical,
exhibits multiple tumor-suppressing activities and has been tested in clinical
trials. However, the antitumor activities of RESV in osteosarcomas are not yet
completely defined. In osteosarcoma cells, we found that RESV inhibited the
migration/invasion in vitro and lung metastasis in vivo by suppressing matrix
metalloproteinase (MMP)-2. We identified that RESV exhibited a transcriptional
inhibitory effect on MMP-2 through reducing CREB-DNA-binding activity. Moreover, 
a microRNA (miR) analysis showed that miR-328 was predominantly upregulated after
RESV treatment. Inhibition of miR-328 significantly relieved MMP-2 and motility
suppression imposed by RESV treatment. Furthermore, ectopic miR-328 expression in
highly invasive cells decreased MMP-2 expression and invasive abilities.
Mechanistic investigations found that JNK and p38 MAPK signaling pathways were
involved in RESV-regulated CREB-DNA-binding activity, miR328 expression, and cell
motility. Clinical samples indicated inverse expression between MMP-2 and miR-328
in normal bone and osteosarcoma tissues. The inverse correlation of MMP-2 and
miR-328 was also observed in tumor specimens, and MMP-2 expression was linked to 
tumor metastasis. Taken together, our results provide new insights into the role 
of RESV-induced molecular and epigenetic regulation in suppressing tumor
metastasis.

PMID: 25605016  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


873. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2014 Dec 30. doi: 10.1002/ppul.23146. [Epub ahead of print]

Novel outcome measures for clinical trials in cystic fibrosis.

Tiddens HA(1), Puderbach M, Venegas JG, Ratjen F, Donaldson SH, Davis SD, Rowe
SM, Sagel SD, Higgins M, Waltz DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Pulmonology and Allergology, Department of Radiology, 
Erasmus University Medical Center-Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a common inherited condition caused by mutations in the
gene encoding the CF transmembrane regulator protein. With increased
understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying CF and the development of
new therapies there comes the need to develop new outcome measures to assess the 
disease, its progression and response to treatment. As there are limitations to
the current endpoints accepted for regulatory purposes, a workshop to discuss
novel endpoints for clinical trials in CF was held in Anaheim, California in
November 2011. The pros and cons of novel outcome measures with potential utility
for evaluation of novel treatments in CF were critically evaluated. The
highlights of the 2011 workshop and subsequent advances in technologies and
techniques that could be used to inform the development of clinical trial
endpoints are summarized in this review. Pediatr Pulmonol. © 2014 The Authors.
Pediatric Pulmonology published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2014 The Authors. Pediatric Pulmonology published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 25641878  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


874. Respir Med. 2014 Dec 30. pii: S0954-6111(14)00444-2. doi:
10.1016/j.rmed.2014.12.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Characterisation of the frequent exacerbator phenotype in COPD patients in a
large UK primary care population.

McGarvey L(1), Lee AJ(2), Roberts J(3), Gruffydd-Jones K(4), McKnight E(5),
Haughney J(6).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Infection and Immunity, The Queen's University of Belfast, UK.
Electronic address: l.mcgarvey@qub.ac.uk. (2)Medical Statistics Team, University 
of Aberdeen, UK. (3)Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, UK. (4)Box
Surgery, Wiltshire, UK. (5)National Services for Health Improvement, Dartford,
UK. (6)Centre of Academic Primary Care, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

BACKGROUND: The 'frequent exacerbator' is recognised as an important phenotype in
COPD. Current understanding about this phenotype comes from prospective
longitudinal clinical trials in secondary/tertiary care with little information
reported in primary care populations.
AIMS: To characterize the frequent-exacerbator phenotype and identify associated 
risk factors in a large UK primary care COPD population.
METHODS: Using a large database of primary care patients from 80 UK general
practices, patients were categorised using GOLD 2014 criteria into high and low
risk groups based on exacerbation history. A multivariate logistic regression
model was used to investigate covariates associated with the frequent-exacerbator
phenotype and risk of experiencing a severe exacerbation (leading to
hospitalisation).
RESULTS: Of the total study population (n = 9219), 2612 (28%) fulfilled the
criteria for high risk frequent-exacerbators. Independent risk factors (adjusted 
odds ratio [95% CI]) for ≥2 exacerbations were: most severely impaired modified
Medical Research Council (mMRC) dyspnoea score (mMRC grade 4: 4.37 [2.64-7.23]), 
lower FEV1 percent predicted (FEV1 <30%: 2.42 [1.61-3.65]), co-morbid
cardiovascular disease (1.42 [1.19-1.68]), depression (1.56 [1.22-1.99]) or
osteoporosis (1.54 [1.19-2.01]), and female gender (1.20 [1.01-1.43]). Older
patients (≥75 years), those with most severe lung impairment (FEV1 <30%), those
with highest mMRC score and those with co-morbid osteoporosis were identified as 
most at risk of experiencing exacerbations requiring hospitalisation.
CONCLUSIONS: Although COPD exacerbations occur across all grades of disease
severity, female patients with high dyspnoea scores, more severely impaired lung 
function and co-morbidities are at greatest risk. Elderly patients, with severely
impaired lung function, high mMRC scores and osteoporosis are associated with
experience of severe exacerbations requiring hospitalisation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25613107  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


875. Transfus Apher Sci. 2014 Dec 30. pii: S1473-0502(14)00254-7. doi:
10.1016/j.transci.2014.12.016. [Epub ahead of print]

Development of blood transfusion product pathogen reduction treatments: A review 
of methods, current applications and demands.

Salunkhe V(1), van der Meer PF(2), de Korte D(3), Seghatchian J(4), Gutiérrez
L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Blood Cell Research, Sanquin Research and Landsteiner
Laboratory, Academic Medical Centre (AMC), University of Amsterdam (UvA),
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (2)Department of Product and Process Development,
Sanquin Blood Bank, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Blood Cell
Research, Sanquin Research and Landsteiner Laboratory, Academic Medical Centre
(AMC), University of Amsterdam (UvA), Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of
Product and Process Development, Sanquin Blood Bank, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
(4)International Consultancy in Blood Components Quality/Safety Improvement and
DDR Strategy, London, UK. Electronic address: jseghatchian@btopenworld.com.
(5)Department of Blood Cell Research, Sanquin Research and Landsteiner
Laboratory, Academic Medical Centre (AMC), University of Amsterdam (UvA),
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: l.gutierrez@sanquin.nl.

Transfusion-transmitted infections (TTI) have been greatly reduced in numbers due
to the strict donor selection and screening procedures, i.e. the availability of 
technologies to test donors for endemic infections, and routine vigilance of
regulatory authorities in every step of the blood supply chain (collection,
processing and storage). However, safety improvement is still a matter of concern
because infection zero-risk in transfusion medicine is non-existent. Alternatives
are required to assure the safety of the transfusion product and to provide a
substitution to systematic blood screening tests, especially in less-developed
countries or at the war-field. Furthermore, the increasing mobility of the
population due to traveling poses a new challenge in the endemic screening tests 
routinely used, because non-endemic pathogens might emerge in a specific
population. Pathogen reduction treatments sum a plethora of active approaches to 
eliminate or reduce potential threatening pathogen load from blood transfusion
products. Despite the success of pathogen reduction treatments applied to plasma 
products, there is still a long way to develop and deploy pathogen reduction
treatments to cellular transfusion products (such as platelets, RBCs or even to
whole blood) and there is divergence on its acceptance worldwide. While the use
of pathogen reduction treatments in platelets is performed routinely in a fair
number of European blood banks, most of these treatments are not (or just)
licensed in the USA or elsewhere in the world. The development of pathogen
reduction treatments for RBC and whole blood is still in its infancy and under
clinical trials. In this review, we discuss the available and emerging pathogen
reduction treatments and their advantages and disadvantages. Furthermore, we
highlight the importance of characterizing standard transfusion products with
current and emerging approaches (OMICS) and clinical outcome, and integrating
this information on a database, thinking on the benefits it might bring in the
future toward personalized transfusion therapies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620756  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


876. J Inorg Biochem. 2014 Dec 29;145C:30-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jinorgbio.2014.12.020.
[Epub ahead of print]

Sulfur and selenium antioxidants: Challenging radical scavenging mechanisms and
developing structure-activity relationships based on metal binding.

Zimmerman MT(1), Bayse CA(2), Ramoutar RR(1), Brumaghim JL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Clemson University, Clemson, SC 29634-0973, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Old Dominion University, Hampton
Boulevard, Norfolk, VA 23529, USA. (3)Department of Chemistry, Clemson
University, Clemson, SC 29634-0973, USA. Electronic address: brumagh@clemson.edu.

Because sulfur and selenium antioxidants can prevent oxidative damage, numerous
animal and clinical trials have investigated the ability of these compounds to
prevent the oxidative stress that is an underlying cause of cardiovascular
disease, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer, among others. One of the most common
sources of oxidative damage is metal-generated hydroxyl radical; however, very
little research has focused on determining the metal-binding abilities and
structural attributes that affect oxidative damage prevention by sulfur and
selenium compounds. In this review, we describe our ongoing investigations into
sulfur and selenium antioxidant prevention of iron- and copper-mediated oxidative
DNA damage. We determined that many sulfur and selenium compounds inhibit
Cu(I)-mediated DNA damage and that DNA damage prevention varies dramatically when
Fe(II) is used in place of Cu(I) to generate hydroxyl radical. Oxidation
potentials of the sulfur or selenium compounds do not correlate with their
ability to prevent DNA damage, highlighting the importance of metal coordination 
rather than reactive oxygen species scavenging as an antioxidant mechanism.
Additional gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, and UV-visible studies
confirmed sulfur and selenium antioxidant binding to Cu(I) and Fe(II).
Ultimately, our studies established that both the hydroxyl-radical-generating
metal ion and the chemical environment of the sulfur or selenium significantly
affect DNA damage prevention and that metal coordination is an essential
mechanism for these antioxidants.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25600984  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


877. Leuk Res. 2014 Dec 23. pii: S0145-2126(14)00390-7. doi:
10.1016/j.leukres.2014.12.007. [Epub ahead of print]

"Real world" outcome of lenalidomide plus dexamethasone in the setting of
recurrent and refractory multiple myeloma: Extended follow-up of a retrospective 
multicenter study by the "rete ematologica pugliese"

Mele G(1), Melpignano A(2), Quarta G(2), Palumbo G(3), Capalbo S(3), Falcone
A(4), Cascavilla N(4), Palazzo G(5), Mazza P(5), Iannitto E(5), Curci P(6), Rizzi
R(6), Specchia G(6), Rossini B(7), Pavone V(7), Ria R(8), Vacca A(8), Buquicchio 
C(9), Tarantini G(9), Minoia C(10), Guarini A(10), Ditonno P(11), Polimeno G(12),
Reddiconto G(13), Di Renzo N(13).

Author information: 
(1)Haematology, Ospedale A. Perrino, Brindisi, Italy. Electronic address:
giuseppemele2007@gmail.com. (2)Haematology, Ospedale A. Perrino, Brindisi, Italy.
(3)Haematology, Ospedali Riuniti, Foggia, Italy. (4)Haematology, Ospedale Casa
Sollievo della Sofferenza, San Giovanni Rotondo, Foggia, Italy. (5)Haematology,
Ospedale G. Moscati, Taranto, Italy. (6)Haematology, University of Bari Medical
School, Policlinico, Bari, Italy. (7)Haematology, Ospedale Cardinale Panico,
Tricase, Lecce, Italy. (8)Internal Medicine, University of Bari Medical School,
Policlinico, Bari, Italy. (9)Haematology, Ospedale Monsignor R. Dimiccoli,
Barletta, Bari, Italy. (10)Haematology, Ospedale Giovanni Paolo II, Bari, Italy. 
(11)Haematology, Ospedale Di Venere, Bari, Italy. (12)Haematology, Ospedale F.
Miulli, Acquaviva delle Fonti, Bari, Italy. (13)Haematology, Ospedale V. Fazzi,
Lecce, Italy.

This current retrospective multicenter analysis represents, to our knowledge, the
first Italian study evaluating the efficacy and toxicity profile of "lenalidomide
plus dexamethasone" as salvage therapy in patients with recurrent-refractory MM
in the real life contest. Our study included patients who are usually excluded
from clinical trials because of unfavorable baseline characteristics. Median OS
was significantly longer in patients receiving "lenalidomide plus dexamethasone" 
for more than 12 months compared with those who had received "lenalidomide plus
dexamethasone" for a shorter interval (P<0.0001). Median OS was not affected by
best response achieved (P 0.4) and age (P 0.3). Quality of response did not
correlate with number of previous lines of therapy (P 0.77) and age. Higher ORRs 
were recorded in the patients group with relapsed MM compared to those with
refractory disease, but this difference was not statistically significant (P
0.38).

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25636354  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


878. Vet J. 2014 Dec 19. pii: S1090-0233(14)00500-0. doi: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2014.12.004. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Effect of antibiotic treatment in canine and feline urinary tract infections: A
systematic review.

Jessen LR(1), Sørensen TM(2), Bjornvad CR(2), Nielsen SS(3), Guardabassi L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical and Animal Sciences, Faculty of Health and
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Dyrlaegevej 16, 1870 Frederiksberg C,
Denmark. Electronic address: lrmj@sund.ku.dk. (2)Department of Veterinary
Clinical and Animal Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University 
of Copenhagen, Dyrlaegevej 16, 1870 Frederiksberg C, Denmark. (3)Department of
Large Animal Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, Groennegaardsvej 8, 1870 Frederiksberg C, Denmark. (4)Department of
Veterinary Disease Biology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, Stigboejlen 4, 1870 Frederiksberg C, Denmark.

Urinary tract infection (UTI) is a major reason for antibiotic prescription in
small animal practice. Optimal antibiotic treatment strategies have not been
established for veterinary species, especially when considering duration of
treatment, which is often considerably longer than for human patients with UTI.
The aims of this study were (1) to identify and assess evidence related to the
efficacy of antibiotic treatment in canine and feline UTIs; and (2) to compare
the efficacy of short (<5 days) and standard (≥7 days) duration of antibiotic
treatment for canine uncomplicated UTI. An electronic literature search was
conducted for publications to 1 May 2014. Fourteen peer-reviewed prospective and 
controlled studies were retrieved, 10 of which evaluated antibiotic treatment in 
dogs and four in cats. Of the 14 studies, seven were clinical trials and five of 
those were randomised controlled trials. Most (12/14) studies were not considered
to contribute sufficient evidence to evaluate treatment strategies. There were no
clinical studies examining the effect of duration of the same drug. Of the short 
duration regimens evaluated, the efficacy of 3 day antibiotic therapy with
trimethoprim-sulphonamide (females only) or high-dose enrofloxacin in dogs with
uncomplicated UTIs was supported by fair evidence, as these treatment strategies 
were non-inferior to medium duration (10-14 days) therapy with β-lactam
antimicrobials. In conclusion, there is little published evidence relating to
antibiotic treatment of UTIs in dogs and cats. Well-designed clinical trials
focusing on the duration of treatment are warranted to create evidence-based
treatment protocols.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25634080  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


879. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2014 Dec 17. pii: S1090-3798(14)00204-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejpn.2014.12.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Quality of survival assessment in European childhood brain tumour trials, for
children aged 5 years and over.

Limond JA(1), Bull KS(2), Calaminus G(3), Kennedy CR(4), Spoudeas HA(5),
Chevignard MP(6); the Brain Tumour Quality of Survival Group, International
Society of Paediatric Oncology (Europe) (SIOP-E).

Author information: 
(1)Mental Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. Electronic
address: Jennifer.Limond@glasgow.ac.uk. (2)Faculty of Medicine, University of
Southampton, Southampton, UK. (3)Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University
Hospital Münster, Münster, Germany. (4)Faculty of Medicine, University of
Southampton, Southampton, UK; University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation
Trust, Southampton, UK. (5)Paediatric Endocrinology, University College London
Hospital and Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, UK. (6)Rehabilitation
Department for children with acquired neurological injury, Saint Maurice
Hospitals, Saint Maurice, France; Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR
7371, UMR_S 1146, LIB, F-75005, Paris, France.

INTRODUCTION: There is increasing recognition of the long-term sequelae of brain 
tumours treated in childhood. Five year survival rates now exceed 75% and
assessing the quality of survival (QoS) in multiple domains is essential to any
comparison of the benefits and harms of treatment regimens.
AIM: The aim of this position statement is to rationalise assessments and
facilitate collection of a common data set across Europe. Sufficient numbers of
observations can then be made to enable reliable comparisons between outcomes
following different tumour types and treatments.
METHODS: This paper represents the consensus view of the QoS working group of the
Brain Tumour group of the European Society of Paediatric Oncology regarding
domains of QoS to prioritise for assessment in clinical trials. This consensus
between clinicians and researchers across Europe has been arrived at by
discussion and collaboration over the last eight years.
RESULTS: Areas of assessment discussed include core medical domains (e.g. vision,
hearing, mobility, endocrine), emotion, behaviour, adaptive behaviour and
cognitive functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: A 'core plus' approach is suggested in which core assessments (both 
direct and indirect tests) are recommended for all clinical trials. The core
component is a relatively brief screening assessment that, in most countries, is 
a sub-component of routine clinical provision. The 'plus' components enable the
addition of assessments which can be selected by individual countries and/or
tumour-, age-, and location-specific groups. The implementation of a QoS protocol
common to all European clinical studies of childhood brain tumours is also
discussed.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25617909  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


880. J Clin Epidemiol. 2014 Dec 17. pii: S0895-4356(14)00496-X. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2014.11.018. [Epub ahead of print]

A systematic review found no consistent difference in effect between more and
less intensive placebo interventions.

Fässler M(1), Meissner K(2), Kleijnen J(3), Hróbjartsson A(4), Linde K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of General Practice, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische
Universität München, Orleansstrasse 47, 81667 Munich, Germany. Electronic
address: faessler@ethik.uzh.ch. (2)Institute of General Practice, Klinikum rechts
der Isar, Technische Universität München, Orleansstrasse 47, 81667 Munich,
Germany. (3)School for Public Health and Primary Care (CAPHRI), Maastricht
University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands. (4)Nordic Cochrane
Centre, Rigshospitalet, 7811, Blegdamsvej 9, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: It has been suggested that some placebo interventions might be
associated with larger clinical effects than others. In a systematic review, we
investigated whether there is evidence from direct comparisons in randomized
clinical trials including two or more placebo groups supporting this hypothesis.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Eligible trials were identified through electronic
database searches and citation tracking up to February 2013. Placebo
interventions in a trial were categorized into a more intense and a less intense 
intervention based on complexity, invasiveness, or route of administration and
time needed for application.
RESULTS: Twelve studies with 1,059 patients receiving placebo met the eligibility
criteria. Studies were highly heterogeneous regarding patients, interventions,
outcomes, and risk of bias. Seven studies did not find any significant
differences between the more intense and the less intense placebo intervention,
four studies found differences for single outcomes, and one study consistently
reported significantly larger effects of the more intense placebo. An explorative
meta-analysis yielded a standardized mean difference -0.22 (95% confidence
interval: -0.46, 0.02; P = 0.07; I(2) = 68%).
CONCLUSION: In the studies included in this review, more intense placebos were
not consistently associated with larger effects than less intense placebos.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25639981  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


881. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Dec 17. pii: S0887-8994(14)00609-2. doi:
10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.10.011. [Epub ahead of print]

Possible Autoimmune Association Between Herpes Simplex Virus Infection and
Subsequent Anti-N-Methyl-d-Aspartate Receptor Encephalitis: A Pediatric Patient
With Abnormal Movements.

Yushvayev-Cavalier Y(1), Nichter C(2), Ramirez-Zamora A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Albany Medical College, Albany, New York. Electronic 
address: yushvay@mail.amc.edu. (2)Division of Pediatric Neurology, Department of 
Neurology, Albany Medical College, Albany, New York. (3)Division of Movement
Disorders, Department of Neurology, Albany Medical College, Albany, New York.

AIM: We describe a child with severe generalized choreoathetosis and
anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis after herpes simplex virus type 1
encephalitis. Recent evidence supports an autoimmune trigger for
anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis following a viral infection. This
is emerging as a common and potentially treatable autoimmune condition in the
pediatric population.
PATIENT DESCRIPTION: A 6-month-old girl presented with fever, diarrhea, and
partial seizures and was subsequently treated for proven herpes simplex virus
type 1 encephalitis. Shortly thereafter, she developed irritability, insomnia,
dysautonomia, orolingual and facial choreodystonic movements, spontaneous
vocalizations, and choreoathetoid movements of her trunk and limbs. Cerebrospinal
fluid analysis confirmed anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antibodies.
Management of her movements required titrated doses of clobazam, valproate,
tetrabenazine, and immunotherapy. At 3 months' follow-up, her abnormal movements 
had completely resolved.
CONCLUSIONS: Our patient adds to recent evidence linking a viral trigger for
brain autoimmunity. Movement disorders appear early, leading to severe patient
and family distress, and pose a serious management dilemma because of a paucity
of clinical trials assessing treatments in the pediatric population. Abnormal
hyperkinetic movements present early and prominently, requiring a combination of 
symptomatic and immune-modulating therapies for successful treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661288  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


882. Heart Lung Circ. 2014 Dec 12. pii: S1443-9506(14)00815-4. doi:
10.1016/j.hlc.2014.12.002. [Epub ahead of print]

The Scientific Foundation, Rationale and Argument for a Nonfrequentist Bayesian
Analysis in Clinical Trials in Coronary Artery Disease.

Luthra S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiac Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. Electronic address:
suviteshluthra@yahoo.com.

Randomised control trials (RCT) are considered the gold standard for the strength
of evidence used in formulation of guidelines in the contemporary clinical
practice. The analysis is based on the design of an experiment that analyses data
collected in a future event space with no regard to past observations. It bases
its conclusions on arbitrary values of significance that might not be clinically 
relevant or plausible. A Bayesian analysis looks at all the past evidence and
observations to reach a conclusion and does not have the shortcomings of a RCT.

Copyright © 2015 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic
Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). 
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25648381  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


883. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk. 2014 Dec 11. pii: S2152-2650(14)00537-0. doi:
10.1016/j.clml.2014.12.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Connect MM Registry: The Importance of Establishing Baseline Disease
Characteristics.

Rifkin RM(1), Abonour R(2), Terebelo H(3), Shah JJ(4), Gasparetto C(5), Hardin
J(6), Srinivasan S(7), Ricafort R(7), Nagarwala Y(7), Durie BG(8).

Author information: 
(1)US Oncology Research, The Woodlands, TX and Rocky Mountain Cancer Centers,
Denver, CO. Electronic address: robert.rifkin@usoncology.com. (2)Indiana
University Simon Cancer Center, Indianapolis, IN. (3)Newland Medical Associates, 
Novi, MI. (4)M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX. (5)Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, NC. (6)University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. (7)Celgene
Corporation, Summit, NJ. (8)Cedars-Sinai Comprehensive Cancer Center, Los
Angeles, CA.

BACKGROUND: Connect MM is the first and largest observational, noninterventional,
prospective registry of patients newly diagnosed with multiple myeloma (NDMM) in 
the United States. It collects longitudinal data on patients within clinical
practice including patients in clinical trials.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Of the 1513 patients enrolled, 1493 were protocol-eligible.
RESULTS: Median age was 67 years, 81.9% (1223/1493) were Caucasian, and 57.2%
(854/1493) were male. Of these patients, 26.5% (232/877) were International
Staging System stage I, 34.9% (306/877) stage II, and 38.7% (339/877) stage III. 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0/1/2 were reported in
96.6% (1017/1053). Clonal plasma cells > 10% were found in 91.6% (1282/1399) of
patients and M-component in 98.8% (1343/1359). Hypercalcemia was present in 7.3% 
(108/1481) of patients, serum creatinine > 2 mg/dL in 18.3% (271/1484), anemia in
45.1% (673/1493), and bone involvement in 76.7% (1143/1490). Of the 15 National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) recommended diagnostic tests, a median of 12 
were performed. Lactate dehydrogenase assessment, serum free light chain ratio,
and immunofixation were reported in 38.4% (574/1493), 62.1% (927/1493), and 66%
(985/1493) of patients, respectively. Quantitative immunoglobulin, β-2
microglobulin, and protein electrophoresis (serum or urine) were reported in
72.3% (1080/1493), 74.1% (1107/1493), and 78.0% (1164/1493) of patients,
respectively. Bone marrow biopsy was reported in 92.2% (1376/1493), but
conventional cytogenetic and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis were
reported in only 63.2% (944/1493) and 59.8% (893/1493) of patients, respectively.
A high-risk cytogenetic profile (according to International Myeloma Working Group
[IMWG] criteria) was found in 16.9% (253/1493).
CONCLUSION: This analysis provides insight into the demographic and disease
characteristics of NDMM patients in a range of clinical practices. Creating solid
records of baseline patient disease characteristics using suggested NCCN
diagnostic work-up and IMWG criteria provides a foundation for monitoring disease
progression and response to treatment.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25617035  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


884. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2014 Dec 11. pii: S1198-743X(14)00142-6. doi:
10.1016/j.cmi.2014.12.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Maraviroc 150 mg daily plus lopinavir/ritonavir, a nucleoside/nucleotide reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor-sparing regimen for HIV-infected naive patients: 48-week 
final results of VEMAN study.

Nozza S(1), Galli L(2), Antinori A(3), Chiappetta S(4), Mazzotta F(5), Zaccarelli
M(3), Ottou S(3), De Battista D(6), Pogliaghi M(4), Di Pietro M(5), Malnati M(6),
Ripa M(4), Bonora S(7), Lazzarin A(4); VEMAN Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, OSR Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
Electronic address: silvia.nozza@hsr.it. (2)Department of Infectious Diseases,
OSR Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. (3)IRCCS INMI Spallanzani, Infectious
Disease, Rome, Italy. (4)Department of Infectious Diseases, OSR Scientific
Institute, Milan, Italy; University Vita e Salute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy.
(5)Division of Infectious Diseases, Ospedale S.M. Annunziata, Antella, Florence, 
Italy. (6)Unit of Human Virology, Division of Immunology, Transplantation and
Infectious Diseases, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. (7)Unit of 
Infectious Diseases, Department of Medical Sciences, University of Torino, Italy.

Non-conventional strategies with nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase
inhibitor-sparing regimens in antiretroviral naive human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) -infected patients have been explored in clinical trials. A prospective,
open-label, randomized (1:1), multicentre, proof-of-concept trial (VEMAN study,
EUDRACT number 2008-006287-11) was conducted assigning HIV-infected naive
patients to once-daily maraviroc plus lopinavir/ritonavir (MVC group) or to
tenofovir/emtricitabine plus lopinavir/ritonavir (TDF/FTC group). Clinical and
laboratory data were collected at baseline, and after 4, 12, 24, 36 and 48 weeks 
with the objective to evaluate the 48-week virological and immunological
efficacy. HIV-1 DNA load and CD4(+) T-cell subsets were analysed on frozen
peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected at baseline, 4 and 48 weeks to
explore the trend in HIV reservoirs. Fifty patients were randomized and included 
in the analysis. During follow up, HIV-1 RNA decreased similarly in both groups
and, at week 48, all patients in the MVC group and 22/24 (96%) in the TDF/FTC
group had < 50 copies/ml of HIV-1 RNA. CD4(+) trend during follow up was higher
in maraviroc-treated patients (MVC group: 286 (183-343) versus TDF/FTC group: 199
(125-285); Mann-Whitney U-test: p 0.033). A significant 48-week increase of
CCR5(+) CD4(+) T cells and CD4(+) effector memory cells was observed among
maraviroc-treated patients (Wilcoxon signed rank test: p 0.016 and p 0.007,
respectively). No significant variations were found in naive and central memory
CD4(+) T cells. Among naive patients with an R5 virus, treatment with maraviroc
and lopinavir/ritonavir was shown to provide a virological response compared to a
triple therapy and a greater immunological benefit.

Copyright © 2014 European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious
Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25656621  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


885. Biochem Cell Biol. 2014 Dec 7:1-15. [Epub ahead of print]

Cardiovascular complications of type 2 diabetes in youth.

Kehler DS(1), Stammers AN, Susser SE, Hamm NC, Kimber DE, Hlynsky MW, Duhamel TA.

Author information: 
(1)a Health, Leisure and Human Performance Research Institute, Faculty of
Kinesiology and Recreation Management, University Of Manitoba.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in youth has increased
dramatically over the past decades. The literature also suggests that the
progression from an impaired glucose tolerance state to established T2DM is more 
rapid in youth, compared to adults. The presence of significant cardiovascular
complications in youth with T2DM, including cardiac, macrovascular, and
microvascular remodeling, is another major issue in this younger cohort and poses
a significant threat to the healthcare system. However, this issue is only now
emerging as a major public health concern, with few data to support optimal
treatment targets and strategies to reduce cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in
youth with T2DM. Accordingly, the purpose of this minireview is to better
understand the cardiovascular complications in youth with T2DM. We briefly
describe the pathophysiology from youth studies, including oxidative stress,
inflammation, renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, and epigenetics, which link
T2DM and CVD. We also describe the literature concerning the early signs of CVD
in youth and potential treatment options to reduce cardiovascular risk.

PMID: 25629355  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


886. Screening for High Blood Pressure in Adults: A Systematic Evidence Review for the
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force [Internet].

Piper MA, Evans CV, Burda BU, Margolis KL, O’Connor E, Smith N, Webber E, Perdue 
LA, Bigler KD, Whitlock EP.
Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2014 Dec. Report
No.: 13-05194-EF-1.
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic
Evidence Reviews.

OBJECTIVE: We conducted this systematic review to support the U.S. Preventive
Services Task Force (USPSTF) in updating its recommendation on screening for high
blood pressure (BP) in nonpregnant adults.
DATA SOURCES: We searched relevant databases and literature sources from 2003 to 
June 17, 2013 to identify existing systematic reviews. For Key Questions (KQs) 1 
and 5, we searched MEDLINE, PubMed, Cochrane Central Register for Controlled
Clinical Trials, and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature
from 2003 to February 24, 2014 to locate relevant studies. For KQs 2 and 3, we
searched MEDLINE, PubMed, and the Cochrane Central Register for Controlled
Clinical Trials from January 1, 1992 to February 24, 2014 for relevant studies.
For KQ 4, we searched MEDLINE and PubMed from January 1, 1966 to February 24,
2014 to identify longitudinal cohort studies of rescreening.
STUDY SELECTION: We conducted a dual independent review of 19,309 abstracts and
1,171 full-text articles against a priori inclusion and exclusion criteria. Two
investigators also independently critically appraised each included article using
criteria defined by the USPSTF and supplemented with criteria from the Quality
Assessment of Studies of Diagnostic Accuracy II, the Quality in Prognosis Studies
tool, and the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale for diagnostic accuracy (KQs 2 and 3),
prognostic (KQ 3), and observational (KQs 4 and 5) studies, respectively. We
resolved discrepancies through discussion and consultation with a third reviewer,
when necessary. We included only fair- or good-quality studies.
DATA ANALYSIS: For KQs 1 and 5, we qualitatively summarized results because of
the small number of included studies. For KQ 2, we calculated the diagnostic
accuracy of office-based BP measurement (OBPM) devices and protocols using the
result from the most commonly recommended device (i.e., manual mercury
sphygmomanometer) or protocol component (e.g., no caffeine) as the reference
standard. We qualitatively summarized the results. For the prognosis component of
KQ 3, we grouped outcomes into the categories of cardiovascular (CV), stroke, and
cardiac events. We combined fatal and nonfatal events within these outcome
categories. Risk was consistently expressed as a hazard ratio per increment in BP
measurement across all included studies. Risk results for CV outcomes by BP
measurement method at baseline were visualized in forest plots of hazard ratios. 
For diagnostic accuracy calculations, we used the BP measurement method that best
predicted CV outcomes (i.e., ambulatory BP monitoring [ABPM]) as the reference
standard. We qualitatively evaluated how patient or study characteristics
influenced diagnostic accuracy. For KQ 4, we pooled incidence rates for the
overall populations in included studies to generate a weighted mean incidence at 
various rescreening intervals, which were categorized into 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5
years. We qualitatively examined direct evidence from subgroup results reported
within studies to address the influence of patient characteristics.
RESULTS: One randomized, controlled trial (39 clusters; n=140,642) of a Canadian 
BP screening program that targeted adults age 65 years or older reported 3.02
fewer annual hospital admissions for cardiovascular disease per 1,000 persons in 
the intervention group compared with the no screening group. When the trial data 
were analyzed by number of unique persons with hospital admissions, there was a
significant relative reduction only in the individual outcome of acute myocardial
infarction (rate ratio, 0.89 [95% CI, 0.79 to 0.99]; p=0.03). Few studies
reported the necessary data to allow us to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of
specific BP measurement methods or protocols. In three studies, automated
oscillometric office BP results showed a range of sensitivity (51%–68%) for
elevated BP, defined by manual mercury sphygmomanometry, but more consistent
specificity (97%–98%) and positive predictive value (PPV) (76%–84%). Three
different diagnostic accuracy studies examined the impact of recommended
protocols on OBPM. In one study, a single BP measurement had high sensitivity
(0.95) but only moderate PPV (0.76) compared with the average of second and third
BP measurements. Two small studies in normotensive subjects found that leg
crossing elevated BP measurements within the normal range and caffeine ingestion 
falsely elevated BP measurements above the hypertensive threshold in 17% of
normotensive participants. We first evaluated the predictive value of home BP
monitoring (HBPM) and ABPM methods for long-term CV events compared with OBPM.
Eleven studies reported that daytime, nighttime, and 24-hour ABPM predicted
stroke and other fatal and nonfatal CV events independently of OBPM. While the
results of five studies suggest similar results for HBPM, too few studies are
available to draw firm conclusions. Evidence from one study comparing HBPM with
ABPM was insufficient to allow us to draw conclusions. Limited evidence suggested
that cardiovascular disease outcomes for the patient subgroup with isolated
clinic hypertension (elevated OBPM and normal ABPM) are more similar to those of 
normotensive subjects at baseline than those with sustained hypertension. The
proportion of participants with an elevated BP measurement who are normotensive
upon confirmatory testing by ABPM (or HBPM) ranged from 5 to 65 percent across
all studies. This population has false-positive results when screened by OBPM
methods, or “isolated clinic hypertension.” Increasing baseline OBPM was
associated with increasing PPV for ABPM-confirmed hypertension. As a result, the 
likelihood of misdiagnosis of hypertension based only on screening measurement is
greater as measurements approach the threshold for a diagnosis of hypertension.
We did not qualitatively detect any associations between reported race/ethnicity,
sex, or smoking. Estimates of the weighted mean incidence of hypertension at
yearly intervals less than 6 years were derived from a small number of studies
(except at 5 years) with highly variable results at each interval. The weighted
mean incidence at 5 years of 14 percent, for example, actually ranged from 2 to
28 percent. In the small number of studies that used a separate confirmation
step, a significant proportion of apparent incident hypertension cases were not
confirmed. Thus, overall estimates at yearly intervals based on unconfirmed
incident hypertension are likely to be falsely high. Variation in incidence
estimates across studies also likely reflects differences in criteria for
diagnosis, as well as differences in age, sex, baseline BP, and obesity status of
the populations studied. Hypertension incidence increased as much as two- to
four-fold between a younger (ages 18 to 40/45 years) and older (ages 40/45 to
60/65) age group, respectively. Within-study hypertension incidence consistently 
tripled when comparing participants with initial optimal versus normal BP, and
was approximately doubled in those with initial normal versus high-normal BP.
Incidence was generally higher in men than women, especially men in younger
populations. While incidence was also two-fold higher in overweight persons and
three-fold higher in obese persons compared with those of normal weight, it was
not increased in smokers compared with nonsmokers or former smokers. African
Americans had a consistently higher incidence of hypertension at rescreening than
white participants. Four trials found no significant differences in psychological
distress or quality of life after patients were labeled as hypertensive or
prehypertensive. One cohort study reported significantly increased absenteeism up
to 4 years after labeling compared with the year before. Three cohort studies
reported significant sleep disturbances associated with ABPM use and one study
reported that a significant proportion of ABPM users experienced pain, skin
irritation, and overall discomfort. Discomfort and restrictions in daily
activities were more frequently reported with ABPM than HBPM in one study.
LIMITATIONS: Despite recent emphasis on the instability of single BP measurements
and the need for multiple valid measurements to assess a patient’s actual
elevated BP exposure, high-quality comparable diagnostic accuracy studies are not
common. Given recent recognition of the impact of overdiagnosis in many diseases,
the widespread availability of automated BP devices with variable performance,
and the prevalence of essential hypertension in the United States, further
research is needed to guide primary care clinicians and consumers.
CONCLUSIONS: ABPM (24-hour, daytime, or nighttime) is a better predictor of
long-term CV outcomes than OBPM (usually manual sphygmomanometry) and should be
considered the reference standard for evaluating noninvasive BP measurements. A
small body of evidence suggests, but does not confirm, that HBPM can serve as a
similar predictor of outcomes. Initial screening by office-based methods (manual 
sphygmomanometry or automated oscillometric devices) variably predicts
hypertension as defined by ABPM, resulting in a significant population with
isolated clinic hypertension. Limited evidence suggests that patients with
isolated clinic hypertension have outcomes that are more similar to normotensive 
than hypertensive persons. Failure to confirm initial elevated OBPM results may
result in misdiagnosis and overtreatment. Limited evidence suggests that repeated
measurements and improved procedural control (e.g., by automation) may improve
the diagnostic accuracy of OBPM when used to screen for high BP or confirm a
diagnosis of hypertension. Studies of rescreening intervals at up to 6 years
found a higher incidence of hypertension overall and at shorter intervals for
persons with BP in the high-normal range, older adults, persons with an above
normal BMI, and African Americans. These studies showed much lower incidence at
longer rescreening intervals up to 6 years in persons without these risk factors.

PMID: 25632496  [PubMed]


887. Am Health Drug Benefits. 2014 Dec;7(9):489-99.

Diagnosis and treatment of bipolar disorders in adults: a review of the evidence 
on pharmacologic treatments.

Jann MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dr Jann is Professor and Chair, Department of Pharmacotherapy, University of
North Texas System College of Pharmacy, University of North Texas Health Sciences
Center, Fort Worth, TX.

BACKGROUND: Patients with bipolar disorder are exceptionally challenging to
manage because of the dynamic, chronic, and fluctuating nature of their disease. 
Typically, the symptoms of bipolar disorder first appear in adolescence or early 
adulthood, and are repeated over the patient's lifetime, expressed as
unpredictable recurrences of hypomanic/manic or depressive episodes. The lifetime
prevalence of bipolar disorder in adults is reported to be approximately 4%, and 
its management was estimated to cost the US healthcare system in 2009 $150
billion in combined direct and indirect costs.
OBJECTIVE: To review the published literature and describe the personal and
societal burdens associated with bipolar disorder, the impact of delays in
accurate diagnosis, and the evidence for the clinical effectiveness of available 
pharmacologic therapies.
METHODS: The studies in this comprehensive review were selected for inclusion
based on clinical relevance, importance, and robustness of data related to
diagnosis and treatment of bipolar disorder. The search terms that were initially
used on MEDLINE/PubMed and Google Scholar were restricted to 1994 through 2014
and included "bipolar disorder," "mania," "bipolar depression," "mood
stabilizer," "atypical antipsychotics," and "antidepressants." High-quality,
recent reviews of major relevant topics were included to supplement the primary
studies.
DISCUSSION: Substantial challenges facing patients with bipolar disorder, in
addition to their severe mood symptoms, include frequent incidence of psychiatric
(eg, anxiety disorders, alcohol or drug dependence) and general medical
comorbidities (eg, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity, migraine, and
hepatitis C virus infection). It has been reported that more than 75% of patients
take their medication less than 75% of the time, and the rate of suicide (0.4%)
among patients with bipolar disorder is more than 20 times greater than in the
general US population. Mood stabilizers are the cornerstone of treatment of
bipolar disorder, but atypical antipsychotics are broadly as effective; however, 
differences in efficacy exist between individual agents in the treatment of the
various phases of bipolar disorder, including treatment of acute mania or acute
depression symptoms, and in the prevention of relapse.
CONCLUSION: The challenges involved in managing bipolar disorder over a patient's
lifetime are the result of the dynamic, chronic, and fluctuating nature of this
disease. Diligent selection of a treatment that takes into account its efficacy
in the various phases of the disorder, along with the safety profile identified
in clinical trials and in the real world can help ameliorate the impact of this
devastating condition.

PMCID: PMC4296286
PMID: 25610528  [PubMed]


888. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2014 Dec;12(12):812-819.

The role of HPV status in recurrent/metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the
head and neck.

Misiukiewicz K(1), Camille N(1), Posner M(1), Gupta V(2), Bakst R(2), Teng M(2), 
Miles B(2), Genden E(2), Sikora A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Tisch Cancer Institute, Mount Sinai Health System, New York, NY. (2)Icahn
School of Medicine, Mount Sinai Health System, New York, NY. (3)Baylor College of
Medicine, Houston, TX.

Although the prognostic role of human papillomavirus (HPV) in locoregionally
advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) is well
established, its prognostic and/or predictive role in recurrent/metastatic
settings remains to be defined. Despite epidemic growth of HPV-positive
oropharyngeal carcinoma, a low recurrence rate in HPV-positive patients results
in a small number of patients entering clinical trials for recurrent and/or
metastatic SCCHN. The consequent lack of statistical power and also significant
data contamination by misclassification of HPV-positive patients leads to
premature study conclusions. Even emerging data from the analysis of 2 randomized
trials, SPECTRUM and EXTREME, do not provide enough evidence for any HPV-based
therapeutic strategy. Many upcoming studies for locally advanced disease,
including the ones with de-escalated strategies, will have an increasing number
of patients with HPV. Optimal HPV testing strategies for reliable patient
selection and HPV-driven therapeutic approaches will be essential. Here, we
comprehensively review the existing data regarding HPV status and prognostic or
predictive outcomes in recurrent/metastatic settings and discuss current
promising studies and future directions that may help in the design of upcoming
trials.

PMID: 25674839  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


889. Clin Transl Med. 2014 Nov 30;3(1):60. eCollection 2014.

The translational significance of epithelial-mesenchymal transition in head and
neck cancer.

Graves CA(1), Abboodi FF(2), Tomar S(2), Wells J(3), Pirisi L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Microbiology & Immunology, University of South
Carolina School of Medicine, Bldg. 1 Room B43 6439 Garners Ferry Rd, Columbia, SC
29208 USA ; Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Wm. Jennings Dorn VA Medical
Center, Columbia, SC 29208 USA. (2)Department of Pathology, Microbiology &
Immunology, University of South Carolina School of Medicine, Bldg. 1 Room B43
6439 Garners Ferry Rd, Columbia, SC 29208 USA. (3)Department of Head and Neck
Surgery, Wm. Jennings Dorn VA Medical Center, Columbia, SC 29208 USA.

Positive markers of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in head and neck
cancers complicate clinical management and are associated with reduced survival. 
We discuss recent translational discoveries in EMT and suggest additional
actionable molecular pathways, biomarkers, and clinical agents.

PMCID: PMC4302251
PMID: 25632320  [PubMed]


890. Einstein (Sao Paulo). 2014 Dec;12(4):513-7. doi: 10.1590/S1679-45082014RW2398.

Perioperative hypothermia and incidence of surgical wound infection: a
bibliographic study.

Silva AB(1), Peniche Ade C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. (2)Escola de Enfermagem,
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The purpose of this review article was to understand and analyze the scientific
production related to the occurrence of perioperative hypothermia and the
incidence of infection on the surgical site. For this purpose, a search was
conducted in the databases LILACS, MEDLINE, PubMed, CINAHL and Cochrane, using
the health science descriptors DECS, from 2004 to 2009. A total of 91 articles
were found. After eliminating duplicate items and using selection criteria for
inclusion, six manuscripts remained for analysis. The studies were classified as 
retrospective, prospective, case studies, and clinical trials. After analysis,
the majority of studies showed that hypothermia must be prevented during the
perioperative period to reduce complications in the healing process of the
surgical incision. Therefore, unadverted hypothermia directly influences in
surgical site healing, increasing the incidence of infection in the surgical
wound.

PMID: 25628208  [PubMed - in process]


891. Einstein (Sao Paulo). 2014 Dec;12(4):405-12. doi: 10.1590/S1679-45082014AO3001.

Ethics Requirement Score: new tool for evaluating ethics in publications.

Santos LG(1), Fonseca AC(1), Bica CG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS,
Brazil.

Objective To analyze ethical standards considered by health-related scientific
journals, and to prepare the Ethics Requirement Score, a bibliometric index to be
applied to scientific healthcare journals in order to evaluate criteria for
ethics in scientific publication. Methods Journals related to healthcare selected
by the Journal of Citation Reports™ 2010 database were considered as experimental
units. Parameters related to publication ethics were analyzed for each journal.
These parameters were acquired by analyzing the author's guidelines or
instructions in each journal website. The parameters considered were approval by 
an Internal Review Board, Declaration of Helsinki or Resolution 196/96,
recommendations on plagiarism, need for application of Informed Consent Forms
with the volunteers, declaration of confidentiality of patients, record in the
database for clinical trials (if applicable), conflict of interest disclosure,
and funding sources statement. Each item was analyzed considering their presence 
or absence. Result The foreign journals had a significantly higher Impact Factor 
than the Brazilian journals, however, no significant results were observed in
relation to the Ethics Requirement Score. There was no correlation between the
Ethics Requirement Score and the Impact Factor. Conclusion Although the Impact
Factor of foreigner journals was considerably higher than that of the Brazilian
publications, the results showed that the Impact Factor has no correlation with
the proposed score. This allows us to state that the ethical requirements for
publication in biomedical journals are not related to the comprehensiveness or
scope of the journal.

PMID: 25628189  [PubMed - in process]


892. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2014 Dec;41(13):2555-8.

[Cancer therapy using unsealed radioisotopes-the present and future].

[Article in Japanese]

Karasawa K(1).

Author information: 
(1)ept. of Radiology, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Diseases Center
Komagome Hospital.

Iodine-131 (I-131) has been used for the ablation of residual thyroid remnants
and cancer cells in well-differentiated thyroid cancers. It has also been used
for metastatic well-differentiated thyroid cancers, especially lung and bone
metastases. For small lung metastases, I-131 treatment has curative potential,
particularly in young patients. Suppression of the thyroid stimulating hormone is
also important for prolonging the survival of thyroid cancer patients.
Strontium-89 (Sr-89) chloride has a mechanism similar to calcium, and it has been
used for the treatment of bone metastases, especially osteoblastic metastases. It
has been reported to have analgesic effects in an average of 76% of cases, and it
is more effective if used in the early bone metastatic phase. Ibritumomab
tiuxetan (Zevalin) is an anti-CD20 mouse monoclonal antibody labeled with
Yttrium-90 (Y-90). It is used for treatment-resistant low grade or follicular
B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and mantle lymphomas. Recently, radium-223
(Ra-223) has been used for bone metastases from castration resistant prostate
cancers, and in a phase III trial, it has been proven to prolong survival of
these patients. Cancer therapy using unsealed radioisotopes has been thought to
be promising because it exhibits more targeted therapy than external beam
irradiation. Therefore, if many more ideal targeting agents are developed in the 
future, this treatment might be used more commonly. As many agents such as I-131,
Sr-89, and Ra-223 are available for treating bone metastasis, the combined use of
other treatments such as high precision radiotherapy, bisphosphonates, hormonal
agents, and molecular targeted agents should be investigated.

PMID: 25596049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Georgian Med News. 2014 Dec;(237):40-6.

Myocardial dysfunction during septic shock (review).

Gamkrelidze M(1), Intskirveli N(1), Vardosanidze K(1), Goliadze L(1), Chikhladze 
Kh(1), Ratiani L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tbilisi State Medical University; Elizabeth Blackwell Hospital, Tbilisi,
Georgia.

Patients with septic shock frequently develop myocardial dysfunction evidenced by
severely depressed ejection fraction with ventricular dilatation, as measured by 
an increase in mean systolic and end diastolic ventricular volumes. The
pathophysiology of myocardial dysfunction is complex and involves a multitude of 
factors. The current review describes individual contributing factors and
mechanisms such as upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1, TNFО±, IL-2, 
IL-6, IFN-Оі), reduced myocardial responsiveness to Гџ-adrenergic stimulation,
elevated circulating endothelin levels, Impaired calcium uptake and release from 
calcium sarcoplasmic reticulum storage, and decreased calcium channel
sensitivity, overexpression of inducible NOS and increased production of Nitric
oxide. We also discuss possible reasons for apparently detrimental effect of NO
inhibition on cardiovascular function in large clinical trials with sepsis
patients.

PMID: 25617099  [PubMed - in process]


894. J Clin Diagn Res. 2014 Dec;8(12):ZE14-7. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2014/9957.5272. Epub
2014 Dec 5.

Evolution of Barrier Membranes in Periodontal Regeneration-"Are the third
Generation Membranes really here?".

Sam G(1), Pillai BR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Senior Resident, Department of Periodontics, Goverment Dental College ,
Kottayam, Kerala, India . (2)Associate Professor, Department of Periodontics,
Goverment Dental College , Kottayam, Kerala, India .

In the last decades, Guide Tissue Regeneration (GTR) technique has been applied
for the treatment of various periodontal defects such as intrabony defects,
furcation involvements and localized gingival recession defects. From early days 
of using membranes with the simple aim of minimizing toxic response in the host, 
membranes have come a long way. Third generation membranes not only act as
barriers but also as delivery devices to release specific agents. Many clinical
trials have focused on using membranes as delivery devices for antibiotics and
growth factors. In this article we take a brief look at the evolution of barrier 
membranes and future avenues with regard to third generation membranes.

PMCID: PMC4316361
PMID: 25654055  [PubMed]


895. J Clin Diagn Res. 2014 Dec;8(12):MC05-9. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2014/10185.5287. Epub 
2014 Dec 5.

Evaluation of subtle left ventricular systolic abnormalities in adult patients
with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Shetty R(1), Samanth J(2), Nayak K(3), Sarang A(4), Thakkar A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Professor, Department of Cardiology, Kasturba Medical College & Hospital ,
Manipal, Karnataka, India . (2)Post-Graduate Student, Department of
Cardiovascular Technology, School of allied health Science, Manipal University , 
Manipal, Karnataka, India . (3)Assistant Professor, Department of Cardiovascular 
Technology, School of allied health Science, Manipal University , Manipal,
Karnataka, India . (4)Clinical Research Associate, Department of Clinical Trials,
Sahajanand Medical Technologies Pvt Ltd , Surat, Gujarat, India . (5)Senior
Clinical Trial Manager, Department of Clinical Trials, Sahajanand Medical
Technologies Pvt Ltd , Surat, Gujarat, India .

BACKGROUND: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), an auto-somal dominant disorder
due to mutation of genes encoding sarcomeric proteins, leads to left ventricular 
diastolic dysfunction. Recently, the research in this area suggests that systolic
dysfunction exists in the patients with HCM even though traditional measures of
systolic dysfunction are normal. So, we carried out this study to determine
global systolic dysfunction in patients with HCM.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 18 patients, diagnosed with HCM according to
echocardiography parameters, that is thickness of interventricular
septum/posterior wall thickness >1.3 or hypertrophy involving apex only with or
without left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, were included in the study
and were compared with normal age-matched controls. We measured torsion and
strain imaging by 2-dimensional echocardiography as well as strain imaging by
tissue Doppler echocardiography.
RESULT: The results of the study showed that there was considerable increased
torsion in patients with HCM as compared to normal subjects (16.61±7.43 vs.
10.42±4.73, p=0.006). Tissue Doppler indices-systolic annular velocity (7.7±0.7
vs. 8.7±1.00, p=0.012) and lateral wall E/E' (12.52±5.27 vs. 6.66±1.67, p<0.001) 
were significantly different in patients with HCM and normal subjects. The
average systolic strain and strain rate as well as diastolic strain rate were
significantly different in both the groups when strain imaging was performed by
tissue Doppler echocardiography. We also observed significantly reduced global
longitudinal, circumferential and radial strain in patients with HCM when strain 
analysis was carried out with 2-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiography.
CONCLUSION: The global subtle systolic dysfunction, as measured by left
ventricular torsion and strain imaging, is present in patients with HCM even
though traditional measure of systolic dysfunction is normal.

PMCID: PMC4316285
PMID: 25653979  [PubMed]


896. J Clin Transl Endocrinol. 2014 Dec 1;1(4):151-160.

Vitamin D Status, Receptor Gene Polymorphisms, and Supplementation on
Tuberculosis: A Systematic Review of Case-Control Studies and Randomized
Controlled Trials.

Sutaria N(1), Liu CT(2), Chen TC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Boston University School of Medicine, Boston MA 02118 USA. (2)Department of
Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, Boston MA 02118 USA.
(3)Clinical Translational Science Institute, and Department of Medicine, Boston
University School of Medicine, Boston MA 02118 USA.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the impacts of vitamin D status, supplementation and
vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene polymorphisms on tuberculosis (TB).
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of published studies pertaining to
case-control and randomized-control trials from 2002 to 2014 using the PubMed
database.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Individuals with TB have lower vitamin D status than
healthy individuals. Some VDR gene polymorphisms are associated with increased
susceptibility to TB while others may not. Supplementation with vitamin D leads
to improved clinical outcomes. However, further studies with a larger patient
population and different ethnicities are needed to confirm these effects.

PMCID: PMC4295520 [Available on 2015-12-01]
PMID: 25599020  [PubMed]


897. J Invest Dermatol. 2014 Dec 1. doi: 10.1038/jid.2014.522. [Epub ahead of print]

Placebo Effects on Itch: A Meta-Analysis of Clinical Trials of Patients with
Dermatological Conditions.

van Laarhoven AI(1), van der Sman-Mauriks IM(2), Donders AR(3), Pronk MC(2), van 
de Kerkhof PC(4), Evers AW(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Unit Health, Medical and Neuropsychology, Faculty of Social and Behavioural
Sciences, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands [2] Leiden Institute for
Brain and Cognition (LIBC), Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands [3]
Department of Medical Psychology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen,
The Netherlands. (2)Unit Health, Medical and Neuropsychology, Faculty of Social
and Behavioural Sciences, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department for Health Evidence, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen,
The Netherlands. (4)Department of Dermatology, Radboud University Medical Center,
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Although placebo contributes to the effects of treatment for various symptoms and
conditions, its effect on itch has rarely been investigated. In this
meta-analysis, the magnitude of the placebo effect on itch was systematically
investigated in clinical trials including patients with chronic itch due to
atopic dermatitis, psoriasis, or chronic idiopathic urticaria. From searches in
four databases, 34 articles were included in the quantitative analyses. Placebo
treatment significantly decreased itch (1.3 out of 10, 95% confidence interval
1.02-1.61) compared with baseline itch (effect size 0.55), indicating that
placebo effects have a considerable role in these patients' treatment.Journal of 
Investigative Dermatology advance online publication, 22 January 2015;
doi:10.1038/jid.2014.522.

PMID: 25609025  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


898. J Med Radiat Sci. 2014 Dec;61(4):253-260. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

Comparison of four 3D conformal treatment techniques to optimise radiotherapy
treatment for anal cancer.

Cray A(1), Markham C(1), Ryan M(1), Herschtal A(2), Ngan SY(3), Chander S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Therapy Services, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre Box
Hill, Victoria, Australia. (2)Department of Biostatistics and Clinical Trials,
Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. (3)Department of
Radiation Oncology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Chemoradiotherapy is the standard of care for anal cancer. Sizeable
target volume leads to significant toxicity. We compared four different 3D
conformal radiotherapy (3DCRT) techniques with the aim of finding the best
technique to achieve the lowest dose to the organs at risk (OAR) without
compromising the planning target volume (PTV) coverage.
METHODS: Fifteen computed tomography (CT) data sets from previously treated anal 
cancer patients (five male and 10 female) were re-contoured according to the
Australasian Gastrointestinal Trials Group (AGITG) anal cancer contouring
guidelines for N3 disease. Four different 3DCRT plans for each CT data set
(standard, V-shape, diamond shape and alternate diamond shape) were generated.
Comparisons of the radiation dose to non-rectal bowel (NRB), urinary bladder,
genitalia, and femurs were performed.
RESULTS: V-shape technique achieved significantly lower NRB V40 (mean = 59.6% SD 
= 11%) than diamond (63.8% SD = 13%), standard (63.8% SD = 11%) and alternate
diamond (63.6% SD = 12%) techniques. V-shape technique achieved the lowest mean
bladder dose (mean = 45.3 Gy SD = 1.4 Gy). Diamond technique achieved the lowest 
femur V40 (mean = 32.4%) P < 0.001 for all comparisons between diamond and all
other techniques. For genitalia V40, diamond technique (mean = 26.4% SD = 20%)
and alternate diamond technique (mean = 27.6% SD = 20%) achieved significantly
lower dose than V-shape technique (mean = 43.2% SD = 26%) and standard technique 
(mean = 76.1% SD = 16%) P < 0.001 for all comparisons.
CONCLUSIONS: Sophisticated 3DCRT techniques are superior to conventional
techniques. Different 3DCRT techniques provide varying levels of dose reduction
to OAR, with none of the four techniques investigated capable of reducing dose to
all OAR. A combination of techniques may provide the best solution. Further
refinement of these techniques should be explored.

PMCID: PMC4282118
PMID: 25598979  [PubMed]


899. J Obstet Gynaecol Can. 2014 Dec;36(12):1107-16.

Parvovirus b19 infection in pregnancy.

Crane J(1), Mundle W(2), Boucoiran I(3); Maternal Fetal Medicine Committee,
Gagnon R(4), Bujold E(5), Basso M(3), Bos H(6), Brown R(7), Cooper S(8), Gouin
K(5), McLeod NL(9), Menticoglou S(10), Mundle W(2), Pylypjuk C(10), Roggensack
A(8), Sanderson F(11).

Author information: 
(1)St. John's NL. (2)Windsor ON. (3)Vancouver BC. (4)Verdun QC. (5)Quebec QC.
(6)Victoria BC. (7)Montreal QC. (8)Calgary AB. (9)Halifax NS. (10)Winnipeg MB.
(11)Saint John NB.

OBJECTIVES: This guideline reviews the evidence relating to the effects of
parvovirus B19 on the pregnant woman and fetus, and discusses the management of
women who are exposed to, who are at risk of developing, or who develop
parvovirus B19 infection in pregnancy.
OUTCOMES: The outcomes evaluated were maternal outcomes including erythema
infectiosum, arthropathy, anemia, and myocarditis, and fetal outcomes including
spontaneous abortion, congenital anomalies, hydrops fetalis, stillbirth, and
long-term effects.
EVIDENCE: Published literature was retrieved through searches of PubMed and The
Cochrane Library on July 8, 2013, using appropriate controlled vocabulary (MeSH
terms "parvovirus" and "pregnancy") and key words (parvovirus, infection,
pregnancy, hydrops). Results were restricted to systematic reviews, randomized
control trials/controlled clinical trials, and observational studies. There were 
no date restrictions but results were limited to English or French language
materials. Grey (unpublished) literature was identified through searching the
websites of health technology assessment and health technology assessment-related
agencies, clinical practice guideline collections, and national and international
medical specialty.
VALUES: The quality of evidence in this document was rated using the criteria
described in the Report of the Canadian Task Force on Preventive Health Care
(Table 1). Recommendations 1. Investigation for parvovirus B19 infection is
recommended apart of the standard workup for fetal hydrops or intrauterine fetal 
death. (II-2A) 2. Routine screening for parvovirus immunity in low-risk
pregnancies is not recommended. (II-2E) 3. Pregnant women who are exposed to, or 
who develop symptoms of, parvovirus B19 infection should be assessed to determine
whether they are susceptible to infection (non-immune) or have a current
infection by determining their parvovirus B19 immunoglobulin G and immunoglobulin
M status. (II-2A) 4. If parvovirus B19 immunoglobulin G is present and
immunoglobulin M is negative, the woman is immune and should be reassured that
she will not develop infection and that the virus will not adversely affect her
pregnancy. (II-2A) 5. If both parvovirus B19 immunoglobulin G and immunoglobulin 
M are negative (and the incubation period has passed), the woman is not immune
and has not developed the infection. She should be advised to minimize exposure
at work and at home. Absence from work should be considered on a case-by-case
basis. (II-2C) Further studies are recommended to address ways to lessen exposure
including the risk of occupational exposure. (III-A) 6. If a recent parvovirus
B19 infection has been diagnosed in the woman, referral to an obstetrician or a
maternal-fetal medicine specialist should be considered. (III-B) The woman should
be counselled regarding risks of fetal transmission, fetal loss, and hydrops and 
serial ultrasounds should be performed every 1 to 2 weeks, up to 12 weeks after
infection, to detect the development of anemia (using Doppler measurement of the 
middle cerebral artery peak systolic velocity) and hydrops. (III-B) If hydrops or
evidence of fetal anemia develops, referral should be made to a specialist
capable of fetal blood sampling and intravascular transfusion. (II-2B).

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
PMID: 25668048  [PubMed - in process]


900. Kennedy Inst Ethics J. 2014 Dec;24(4):385-411.

Redundant, secretive, and isolated: when are clinical trials scientifically
valid?

Borgerson K.

Clinical research has at least three problematic features: it tends to be
redundant, secretive, and isolated. Research with these features not only wastes 
resources and causes harm, it also fails to meet a basic ethical requirement of
research: scientific validity. According to a recent editorial in the BMJ,
bioethicists and members of research ethics committees have been "notable by
their absence" among those exposing persistent problems with clinical research
and proposing solutions (Chalmers, Glasziou, and Godlee, BMJ 346, 2013, f105). In
this paper I offer a theoretical diagnosis for the complicity of bioethicists and
research ethics committees in these ongoing problems, as well as a partial
solution in the form of a modified ethical requirement of scientific integrity.

PMID: 25638948  [PubMed - in process]


901. Korean J Physiol Pharmacol. 2014 Dec;18(6):447-56. doi:
10.4196/kjpp.2014.18.6.447. Epub 2014 Dec 30.

Role of cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease
modifying therapies.

Kang JH(1), Ryoo NY(2), Shin DW(3), Trojanowski JQ(4), Shaw LM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, Inha University School
of Medicine, Incheon 400-712, Korea. ; Hypoxia-related Disease Research Center,
Inha University School of Medicine, Incheon 400-712, Korea. ; Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (2)Hypoxia-related Disease Research
Center, Inha University School of Medicine, Incheon 400-712, Korea. ; Department 
of Anatomy, Inha University School of Medicine, Incheon 400-712, Korea.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Inje University Ilsan Paik Hospital, Ilsan
411-706, Korea. (4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. ;
Institute on Aging and Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.

Until now, a disease-modifying therapy (DMT) that has an ability to slow or
arrest Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression has not been developed, and all
clinical trials involving AD patients enrolled by clinical assessment alone also 
have not been successful. Given the growing consensus that the DMT is likely to
require treatment initiation well before full-blown dementia emerges, the early
detection of AD will provide opportunities to successfully identify new drugs
that slow the course of AD pathology. Recent advances in early detection of AD
and prediction of progression of the disease using various biomarkers, including 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Aβ1-42, total tau and p-tau181 levels, and imagining
biomarkers, are now being actively integrated into the designs of AD clinical
trials. In terms of therapeutic mechanisms, monitoring these markers may be
helpful for go/no-go decision making as well as surrogate markers for disease
severity or progression. Furthermore, CSF biomarkers can be used as a tool to
enrich patients for clinical trials with prospect of increasing statistical power
and reducing costs in drug development. However, the standardization of technical
aspects of analysis of these biomarkers is an essential prerequisite to the
clinical uses. To accomplish this, global efforts are underway to standardize CSF
biomarker measurements and a quality control program supported by the Alzheimer's
Association. The current review summarizes therapeutic targets of developing
drugs in AD pathophysiology, and provides the most recent advances in the.

PMCID: PMC4296032
PMID: 25598657  [PubMed]


902. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2014 Dec;37(12):451-8.

[Evidence-based pharmacy - Assessement of quality and clinical relevance of study
results].

[Article in German]

Günther J, Schindler B, Suter K.

The critical appraisal of a study publication includes several steps: quality
inspection of the study methodology, examination of the results, assessments of
benefit and harm for the individual patient. If the first step of the "critical
appraisal" determines, that different sources of bias were successfully
eliminated or minimized in the study conduct, it is worthwhile to work through
the article completely. In the second step, the size and confidence of the study 
results have to be examined in detail. Different outcome measures are used to
describe the effect of an intervention in clinical trials. However, not all
endpoints studied, or differences that are found between treatment groups, are
important for the decision making of a patient. In the last step, the study
results are interpreted for the individual patient in terms of the expected ben- 
efits and possible harms. While the control of methodical quality and the effect 
size of study outcomes may be based on formal criteria, professional value
judgement is necessary for the transfer of study results to an individual
patient, by which a recommendation can be made, adapted to the individual
circumstances, needs and expectations of the patient.

PMID: 25643451  [PubMed - in process]


903. Neural Regen Res. 2014 Dec 1;9(23):2102-10. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.147938.

A novel functional electrical stimulation-control system for restoring motor
function of post-stroke hemiplegic patients.

Huang Z(1), Wang Z(2), Lv X(3), Zhou Y(4), Wang H(1), Zong S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of RF- & OE-ICs, Southeast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province,
China. (2)Institute of RF- & OE-ICs, Southeast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu
Province, China ; Co-innovation Center of Neuroregeneration, Nantong University, 
Nantong, Jiangsu Province, China. (3)State Key Lab of Bioelectronics, Southeast
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China ; Co-innovation Center of
Neuroregeneration, Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu Province, China. (4)State
Key Lab of Bioelectronics, Southeast University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province,
China.

Hemiparesis is one of the most common consequences of stroke. Advanced
rehabilitation techniques are essential for restoring motor function in
hemiplegic patients. Functional electrical stimulation applied to the affected
limb based on myoelectric signal from the unaffected limb is a promising therapy 
for hemiplegia. In this study, we developed a prototype system for evaluating
this novel functional electrical stimulation-control strategy. Based on surface
electromyography and a vector machine model, a self-administered, multi-movement,
force-modulation functional electrical stimulation-prototype system for
hemiplegia was implemented. This paper discusses the hardware design, the
algorithm of the system, and key points of the self-oscillation-prone system. The
experimental results demonstrate the feasibility of the prototype system for
further clinical trials, which is being conducted to evaluate the efficacy of the
proposed rehabilitation technique.

PMCID: PMC4316476
PMID: 25657728  [PubMed]


904. Prescrire Int. 2014 Dec;23(155):300-1.

Emergency contraception in overweight women: an IUD is preferable.

[No authors listed]

According to a post hoc analysis of clinical trials in several hundred obese or
overweight women, levonorgestrel and ulipristal have uncertain efficacy in these 
patients. Insertion of an intrauterine device (IUD) is a better option.

PMID: 25629152  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Prescrire Int. 2014 Dec;23(155):296-300.

Antibiotic therapy for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis in women. Take
resistance into account.

[No authors listed]

Acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis is a bacterial infection of the renal
parenchyma, common in women. The bacterium responsible is usually Escherichia
coli. Empirical antibiotic therapy should be initiated promptly to prevent
serious complications. As of 2014, which empirical antibiotic regimen should be
offered to non-pregnant adult women with acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis,
while awaiting the results of antimicrobial susceptibility testing? We reviewed
the available evidence using the standard Prescrire methodology. Certain oral
fluoroquinolones were effective in a few clinical trials in the 2000s and 2010s: 
ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin, an isomer of ofloxacin. Symptoms resolved within 
5 to 7 days in about 96% of the women. In France, in 2011, about 10% of E. coli
isolated in community laboratories from outpatients with urinary tract infections
were resistant to ciprofloxacin. Resistance is mainly a problem in patients
treated with a quinolone during the preceding months and in recently hospitalised
patients. In hospital laboratories, the fluoroquinolone resistance rate was about
18% in 2012 in France, and even higher in some other European countries. The main
harms of fluoroquinolones are neuropsychiatric disorders, photosensitivity,
tendon disorders, arrhythmia and cardiac conduction disorders, and Clostridium
difficile infection. Injectable "third-generation" cephalosporins, such as
ceftriaxone, are often effective against enterobacteria, in particular E. coli,
and have good kidney penetration. The prevalence of E. coli resistance to
third-generation cephalosporins is rising rapidly in France, particularly in
hospitals: 1% in 2005 versus 10% in 2012. The main harms of cephalosporins are
hypersensitivity reactions and C. difficile infection. Monotherapy with an
aminoglycoside is an alternative that has not been evaluated in this clinical
situation. Due to the serious irreversible adverse effects of aminoglycosides
(nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity), they should only be used when the other options
are unacceptable. In practice, as of 2014, the first-choice empirical antibiotic 
treatment for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis remains an oral fluoroquinolone 
(ciprofloxacin or ofloxacin) or, in certain cases, the injectable
third-generation cephalosporin ceftriaxone. Given the rapid development of
bacterial resistance, broader-spectrum antibiotics should not be used as
empirical therapy, to preserve their efficacy in serious infections. The
empirical treatment should be adjusted as soon as the results of antimicrobial
susceptibility testing are known. Whenever possible, it is preferable to avoid
the use of fluoroquinolones and third-generation cephalosporins in non-serious
infections such as cystitis.

PMID: 25629148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Prostate Int. 2014 Dec;2(4):182-7. doi: 10.12954/PI.14066. Epub 2014 Dec 30.

Validation of a patient reported outcome questionnaire for assessing success of
endoscopic prostatectomy.

Hossack T(1), Woo H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia ; University of
Western Sydney, Sydney, Australia. (2)Department of Urology, Sydney Adventist
Hospital, Sydney, Australia ; University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

PURPOSE: Several international committees involved in establishing standards of
care have recommended that patients undergoing surgery for bladder outlet
obstruction should be assessed with patient reported outcomes (PRO). The Patient 
Global Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) is an instrument designed to measure a
patients interpretation of symptom changes following intervention. The objective 
of this study was to validate the PGI-I as a PRO assessment following surgery for
bladder outflow obstruction (BOO) in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
METHODS: Men undergoing photoselective vaporisation of the prostate were followed
prospectively. Pre- and postoperative International Prostate Symptom Score
(IPSS), Quality of life (QoL) index, peak urinary flow (Qmax), and postvoid
residual (PVR) assessments were done. The PGI-I was conducted and correlated at 3
months postoperatively to changes in IPSS, QoL, Qmax, and PVR.
RESULTS: One hundred and sixty-six consecutive patients were included. Following 
surgery, IPSS and QoL improved by 11 and 2.4 points (P<0.0001). PGI-I was found
to correlate with postoperative changes in IPSS and QoL (Pearson correlation,
0.47 and 0.58, respectively; P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to validate the PGI-I as a PRO measure to
surgery for BOO. This suggests a potential for the PGI-I to be used to assess
surgical therapies for BPH and may be a valuable addition for measuring outcomes 
in clinical trials evaluating surgical interventions for BPH.

PMCID: PMC4286730
PMID: 25599074  [PubMed]


907. Pulm Circ. 2014 Dec;4(4):696-704. doi: 10.1086/678543.

Pulmonary hypertension and the right ventricle-thinking outside the box (Third
International Right Heart Failure Summit, part 1).

Rich JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Northwestern University
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

The Third International Right Heart Failure Summit (Boston, MA) convened a group 
of international clinical and scientific experts in pulmonary vascular disease
and right heart disease to explore cutting-edge developments in the mechanisms
and clinical management of right-sided cardiovascular disease. The symposium was 
organized into three distinct sessions, the first of which was titled "Pulmonary 
Hypertension and the Right Ventricle-Thinking outside the Box" and will be the
focus of this review. Three internationally renowned experts in pulmonary
hypertension and right heart disease-Drs. Stuart Rich, Sean Gaine, and Harm
Bogaard-each delivered provocative lectures. The first lecture, by Dr. Rich, was 
titled "Current Classification for Pulmonary Hypertension-Why Are We Ignoring the
Structural Basis of the Disease?" Rich focused on the current classification
system of pulmonary hypertension and provided a unique historical perspective. He
also addressed the need to evolve the prevailing conceptual framework of our
approach to pulmonary vascular diseases and right ventricular dysfunction,
including the future design of pulmonary hypertension clinical trials. Dr. Gaine 
delivered the second lecture, titled "Treatment Algorithm for Pulmonary
Hypertension: Tunnel Vision of our Current Approach." Gaine emphasized the
tripartite model of pulmonary hypertension management, namely, supportive
measures, pharmacologic therapy, and rescue therapy. Specifically, he detailed
how each of these entities is changing as our understanding of the unmet needs in
the field of pulmonary hypertension is becoming increasingly apparent. Finally,
Dr. Bogaard provided a lecture titled "Treating Right Heart Failure: Why Does the
Art of Medicine Lead the Science?" Bogaard provided a stimulating review of
cutting-edge translational research of right ventricular function and
dysfunction. In particular, he described a variety of molecular and cellular
changes that occur in the hypertrophied right ventricle and contrasted those
changes that may be adaptive from those that are maladaptive and may be potential
therapeutic targets.

PMCID: PMC4278629
PMID: 25610605  [PubMed]


908. Rev Prat. 2014 Dec;64(10):1365-6, 1368-71.

[Classification and natural history of bladder tumors].

[Article in French]

Allory Y.

Urinary bladder tumors are mainly of urothelial type. Classifications include
stage and grade to provide with the required prognostic factors and help to
select the most adequate treatment. Though somatic mutations in bladder tumors
are known, their used for targeted therapy are restricted to clinical trials.
Upper urinary tract tumors are classified as urinary bladder tumor at
histological level, but tumor staging is specified according to calyx, renal
pelvis or ureter location; in young patients with upper urinary tract tumor, a
Lynch syndrome should be eliminated.

PMID: 25668829  [PubMed - in process]


909. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 2014 Dec;34(12):1425-31.

[Effect of complementary treatment of Chinese drugs on myocardial perfusion
patients with acute myocardial infarction after coronary intervention: a
systematic review].

[Article in Chinese]

Tang E, Hou YZ, Mao JY, Wang JY, Zhao ZQ.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the safety and efficacy of routine Western
medicine (WM) plus Chinese drugs for no-flow or slow flow after coronary
revascularization.
METHODS: CNKI, VIP, CBM, Wanfang Data, PubMed, The Cochrane Library, EMBase, and 
other relevant databases were electronically searched. Literatures were also
manually retrieved from related journals. Randomized control trials of treating
no-flow or slow flow patients after coronary revascularization by routine WM
treatment plus Chinese drugs were retrieved. The quality of retrieved literature 
was assessed by methods from Cochrane Handbook. Valid data were extracted and
analyzed by meta-analysis using RevMan5. 1.0 Software. Results Totally 5 trials
including 526 patients with poor general quality were included.
RESULTS: of meta-analyses showed that compared with the routine WM treatment
group, additional use of Chinese drugs could improve thrombolysis in myocardial
infarction (TIMI) [RR =0. 16, 95% Cl (0.07, 0.34), P < 0.01]; reduce elevated ST 
segment significantly [RR = 0.59, 95% CI (0.44, 0.79), P = 0. 00031]; in- crease 
regional myocardial blood flow (P < 0.01) and myocardial perfusion scores (P =
0.0109, P = 0.0115); and improve left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) under 
dobutamine stress state (P = 0.041). Only one trial covered a 6-month follow-up
study. There was no statistical difference in the mortality, recurrent myocardial
infarction, or revascularization between the two groups. There was no statistical
difference in adverse event or safety indicators between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the WM treatment, complementary Chinese drugs could
reduce occurrence of no-flow or slow flow after coronary revascularization, and
further improve clinical efficacy. But larger and higher quality clinical trials 
are necessary for further evidence.

PMID: 25632739  [PubMed - in process]


910. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 2014 Dec;34(12):1413-6.

[Acupuncture clinical trials published in high impact factor journals].

[Article in Chinese]

Hu M, Liu JP, Wu XK.

Acupuncture clinical trials are designed to provide reliable evidence of clinical
efficacy, and SCI papers is one of the high-quality clinical efficacy of
acupuncture research. To analyze these papers published in high impact factor
journals on acupuncture clinical trials, we can study clinical trials from design
to implementation, the efficacy of prevention and cure, combined with
international standard practices to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of
acupuncture. That is the core of acupuncture clinical trials, as well as a
prerequisite for outstanding academic output. A scientific and complete
acupuncture clinical trial should be topically novel, designed innovative,
logically clear, linguistically refining, and the most important point lies in a 
great discovery and solving the pragmatic problem. All of these are critical
points of papers to be published in high impact factor journal, and directly
affect international evaluation and promotion of acupuncture.

PMID: 25632736  [PubMed - in process]


911. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Dec;94(48):3854-8.

[Efficacy of lapatinib versus trastuzumab in neoadjuvant therapy of HER-2
positive breast cancer: a meta-analysis].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiang Z(1), Yang Y(1), Pan Z(2), Yue Z(1), Li L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Combined Chinese & Western Medicine, Tianjin Medical University 
Cancer Institute & Hospital, National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, Tianjin
Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention & Therapy, Tianjin 300060, China.
(2)Department of Combined Chinese & Western Medicine, Tianjin Medical University 
Cancer Institute & Hospital, National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, Tianjin
Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention & Therapy, Tianjin 300060, China. Email:
tjpanzhanyu@medmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of lapatinib or lapatinib plus trastuzumab
versus trastuzumab in the neoadjuvant therapy of human epidermal growth factor
receptor 2 (HER-2) positive breast cancer.
METHODS: MEDLINE database, American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), San
Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium (SABCS), European Society for Medical Oncology
(ESMO) proceedings and China Biomedical Database were searched for literatures of
trastuzumab or lapatinib in neoadjuvant therapy for breast cancer. There was no
limit of language or time. A meta-analysis was performed for retrieved
literatures meeting the inclusion criteria.
RESULTS: A total of 1 794 breast cancer patients from 5 clinical trials were
included. And the regimens were lapatinib plus neoadjuvant chemotherapy (n =
719), trastuzumab plus neoadjuvant chemotherapy (n = 714) and both drugs plus
neoadjuvant chemotherapy (n = 361). The rate of pathological complete remission
(pCR) was lower in lapatinib group than that in trastuzumab group (28.2% vs
35.4%). And the difference was statistically significant (P = 0.004). The pCR
rate was significantly higher in lapatinib plus trastuzumab therapy group than
that in trastuzumab group (53.2% vs 38.1%, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Lapatinib can not replace trastuzumab as a first-choice agent in
neoadjuvant therapy of HER-2 positive breast cancer. Lapatinib plus trastuzumab
achieves better pCR than trastuzumab so that it and may become a first-choice of 
neoadjuvant therapy for HER-2 positive breast cancer regardless of economic
affordability for patients.

PMID: 25623322  [PubMed - in process]


912. Nutr Hosp. 2014 Nov 30;31(2):606-20. doi: 10.3305/nh.2015.31.2.8458.

[Breastfeeding for the prevention of overweight and obesity in children and
teenagers; systematic review].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Aguilar Cordero MJ(1), Sánchez López AM(2), Madrid Baños N(3), Mur Villar N(4),
Expósito Ruiz M(5), Hermoso Rodríguez E(6).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Enfermería, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de
Granada. Hospital Clínico San Cecilio de Granada, España..
mariajaguilar@telefonica.net. (2)Grupo de Investigación CTS 367, Plan Andaluz de 
Investigación, Junta de Andalucía, Departamento de Enfermería. Facultad de
Ciencias de la Salud. Universidad de Granada, España..
mariajaguilar@telefonica.net. (3)Grupo de Investigación CTS 367, Plan Andaluz de 
Investigación, Junta de Andalucía, España. mariajaguilar@telefonica.net. (4)Grupo
de Investigación CTS 367, Plan Andaluz de Investigación, Junta de Andalucía,
España. Facultad de Ciencias Médicas de Cienfuegos, Cuba..
mariajaguilar@telefonica.net. (5)Fundación para la Investigación Biosanitaria de 
Andalucía Oriental-Alejandro Otero (FIBAO). Hospital Virgen de las Nieves,
Granada, España.. mariajaguilar@telefonica.net. (6)Departamento de Enfermería,
Universidad de Granada, España.. mariajaguilar@telefonica.net.

BACKGROUND: Breastfeeding is a recommended practice from national and
international institutions due to the health benefits that it provides, both for 
the nursling and for the mother. Nowadays, overweight and obesity result in
greater morbidity along different life periods.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this systematic review is to explore the characteristics
of breastfeeding in the prevention of overweight and obesity during childhood.
METHOD: A systematic search has been carried out and 113 papers have been
selected: 20 meta-analysis and reviews, 6 original papers of clinical trials, 42 
cohort or longitudinal studies, 19 correlational studies, 24 descriptive studies 
and 2 books.
RESULTS: According to the analysed papers, there is a causal relationship between
breastfeeding and the prevention of childhood obesity.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: In the various studies explored, it has been observed that
the maximum benefits of breastfeeding are obtained when its duration is longer
than 6 months and when it extends for two years, complemented with other
foodstuffs. Other studies show that breastfeeding is effective in obesity
prevention, even when its duration is limited. It is also important that
complementary foods are introduced after the first six months of age, so as to
reduce food allergy risk and to prevent obesity. Similarly, the weight of the
mother during pregnancy has been associated with childhood obesity, as well as
the weight of the child when he was born and other factors like maternal smoking 
and socioeconomic status.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25617541  [PubMed - in process]


913. Nutr Hosp. 2014 Nov 30;31(n02):559-569.

CLINICAL AND MOLECULAR EVIDENCE OF THE CONSUMPTION OF BROCCOLI, GLUCORAPHANIN AND
SULFORAPHANE IN HUMANS.

Conzatti A(1), Telles da Silva Fróes FC(2), Schweigert Perry ID(3), Guerini de
Souza C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul
(UFRGS).. driconzatti@gmail.com. (2)Departamento de Bioquímica, Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS).. fernanda.froes@hotmail.com. (3)Unidade
Acadêmica da Saúde (UNASAU), Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense
(UNESC).Centro de Estudos em Alimentação e Nutrição (CESAN)- Hospital de Clínicas
de Porto Alegre (HCPA) - UFRGS.. atputp@gmail.com. (4)Centro de Estudos em
Alimentação e Nutrição (CESAN)- Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA) -
UFRGS. Faculdade de Medicina, Departamento de Medicina Interna, Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS). Brazil.. carolina.guerini@ufrgs.br.

Introduction: Sulforaphane (SFN) is an isothiocyanate derived from glucoraphanin 
(GRA), which is found in great amounts especially in broccoli. Its consumption
has been reported to be associated with a lower risk of myocardial infarction and
cancer development. Additionally, its effects have been studied in
neurodegenerative diseases, diabetes, and atherosclerosis, most of the times
using animal models and cell cultures. Objectives: Given the promising results of
SFN, this review aimed to investigate evidence documented in human intervention
studies with broccoli, GRA and SFN. Methods: A search was performed on PubMed and
Virtual Health Library databases by two independent researchers using the
descriptors "broccoli" or "glucoraphanin" or "sulforaphane", which should appear 
on the study's title or abstract. This review included randomized clinical trials
performed in humans that were published in English and Portuguese from 2003 to
2013 and that considered clinical and molecular parameters of cell damage as
outcomes of interest. Results: Seventeen studies were selected, and the
predominant type of intervention was broccoli sprouts. More consistent results
were obtained for the clinical parameters blood glucose and lipid profile and for
molecular parameters of oxidative stress, indicating that there was an
improvement in these parameters after intervention. Less solid evidence was found
with regard to decreased inflammation, Helicobacter pylori colonization, and
protection against cancer. Conclusion: Although being relevant, the evidence for 
the use of broccoli, GRA and SFN in humans are limited; thus, further
intervention studies are needed to evaluate outcomes more consistently and reach 
better grounded conclusions.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25617536  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


914. Cancer Imaging. 2014 Nov 29;14(1):34. doi: 10.1186/s40644-014-0034-9.

The use of FDG-PET in diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL): predicting outcome
following first line therapy.

Coughlan M, Elstrom R.

Positron emission tomography (PET) using 18fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) has become
a standard clinical tool for staging and response assessment in aggressive
lymphomas. The use of PET scans in clinical trials is still under exploration,
however. In this review, we examine current data regarding PET in DLBCL, and its 
potential applicability to development of a surrogate endpoint to expedite
clinical trial conduct. Interim PET scanning in DLBCL shows mixed results, with
qualitative assessment variably associated with outcome. Addition of quantitative
assessment might improve predictive power of interim scans. Data from multiple
retrospective studies support that PET-defined response at end of treatment
correlates with outcome in DLBCL. Optimal technical criteria for standardization 
of acquisition and criteria for interpretation of scans require further study.
Prospective studies to define the correlation of PET-defined response and
time-dependent outcomes such as progression free survival (PFS) and overall
survival (OS), critical for development of PET as a surrogate endpoint for
clinical trials, are ongoing. In conclusion, evolving data regarding utility of
PET in predictcing outcome of patients with DLBCL show promise to support the use
of PET as a surrogate endpoint in clinical trials of DLBCL in the future.

PMCID: PMC4264252
PMID: 25608713  [PubMed - in process]


915. Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2014 Nov 28. pii: S0939-4753(14)00346-9. doi:
10.1016/j.numecd.2014.11.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Consumption of a whey protein-enriched diet may prevent hepatic steatosis
associated with weight gain in elderly women.

Ooi EM(1), Adams LA(2), Zhu K(3), Lewis JR(3), Kerr DA(4), Meng X(5), Solah V(4),
Devine A(6), Binns CW(4), Prince RL(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth,
Australia. Electronic address: Esther.Ooi@uwa.edu.au. (2)School of Medicine and
Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia; Department of
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Perth, Australia.
(3)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth,
Australia; Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Sir Charles Gairdner
Hospital, Perth, WA, Australia. (4)Curtin Health Innovation Research Institute & 
School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Australia. (5)Flinders Centre 
for Innovation in Cancer, School of Medicine, Flinders University, Adelaide, SA, 
Australia. (6)School of Exercise, Biomedical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan
University, Perth, Australia.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Protein consumption has been associated with
cardio-metabolic benefits, including weight loss and improved insulin
sensitivity, and may have potential benefits for individuals with fatty liver
disease (FLD). We investigated the effect of increasing dietary protein intake
from whey relative to carbohydrate on hepatic steatosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A two-year randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
trial of 30 g/day whey protein-supplemented beverage (protein) or an
energy-matched low-protein high-carbohydrate beverage (control) for
cardio-metabolic and bone health in 219 healthy elderly women, recruited from the
Western Australian general population. Hepatic steatosis was quantified using
computed tomographic liver-to-spleen (L/S) ratio. FLD was defined as
liver-to-spleen difference <10 Hounsfield units. At baseline, FLD prevalence was 
11.4%. Control and protein groups were similar in body mass index (BMI), insulin 
resistance, L/S ratio and FLD prevalence at baseline. At two-years, dietary
protein increased by 20 g in the protein, but not the control, group. Total
energy intake and physical activity remained similar between groups. At
two-years, BMI and FLD prevalence increased in both groups, with no between group
differences. L/S ratio increased in control, but not protein, group at two-years,
with no between group differences. In a within group comparison, change in BMI
correlated with changes in L/S ratio in control (r = 0.37, P = 0.0007), but not
with protein group (r = 0.04, P = 0.73).
CONCLUSION: Increasing dietary protein intake from whey relative to carbohydrate 
does not reduce weight, hepatic steatosis or the prevalence of FLD in elderly
women. However, it may prevent worsening of hepatic steatosis associated with
weight gain.
CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry
(Registration no. ACTRN012607000163404).

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25638597  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


916. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2014 Nov 25;43(6):695-705.

[Surgical resection versus radiofrequency ablation for primary hepatocellular
carcinoma of 3-5 cm in diameter:a metaanalysis].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu SS(1), Shen MH(2), Ruan SM(3), Qi YM(1).

Author information: 
(1)First Clinical College of Zhejiang Chinese Medical University， Hangzhou
310053， China. (2)Department of Oncology， Zhejiang Provincial Hospital of
Traditional Chinese Medicine， Hangzhou 310006， China. (3)First Clinical College
of Zhejiang Chinese Medical University， Hangzhou 310053， China.Department of
Oncology， Zhejiang Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine， Hangzhou 
310006， China.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the therapeutic effects of surgical hepatic resection （HR） 
and radiofrequency ablation （RFA） in treatment of primary hepatocellular
carcinoma of 3-5 cm in diameter. METHODS：The databases PubMed， CBMdisc， CNKI，
WanFang Data and VIP databases were searched for controlled clinical trials on
evaluating the efficacy between RFA and HR in treatment of primary hepatocellular
carcinoma of 3-5 cm in diameter published from January 1990 to February 2014. Two
reviewers independently screened the literature， extracted the data and assessed 
the methodological quality of the studies included. Then the metaanalysis was
performed by using RevMan5.0 software. RESULTS：Eleven controlled clinical trials 
were included， including one randomized controlled trial and 10 nonrandomized
controlled trials. A total of 811 patients were involved: 404 patients were
treated with RFA as the initial treatment and 407 patients with surgical
resection. Metaanalysis showed that for a single lesion with diameter of 3-5 cm 
of primary hepatocellular carcinoma， the 3-， 5-year diseasefree survival rates
in HR group was significantly higher than those in RFA group （all P<0.05）. There 
were no significant difference in the 1-， 3-， 5-year overall survival rates and
1-year diseasefree survival rate between RFA group and HR group （P>0.05）. For
1-2 nodules with diameters of 3-5 cm of primary hepatocellular carcinoma， the 3-，
5-year diseasefree survival rates and 5-year overall survival rates in HR group 
was significantly higher than those in RFA group （all P<0.05）. No significant
difference in 1-， 3-year overall survival rates and 1-year diseasefree survival 
rate was found between RFA group and HR group （P>0.05）. For maximum nodule of 3-5
cm of multiple primary hepatocellular carcinoma， the 5-year overall survival
rates in HR group was significantly higher than that in RFA group （all P<0.05）.
No significant difference in 1-， 5-year overall survival rates was noted between 
RFA group and HR group （P>0.05）. CONCLUSION： For primary hepatocellular carcinoma
of 3-5 cm in diameter， HR is better than RFA. For the limitation of quality and
quantity of included studies， this conclusion needs to be confirmed by more high 
quality studies．

PMID: 25644570  [PubMed - in process]


917. Cancer Res Treat. 2014 Nov 24. doi: 10.4143/crt.2014.026. [Epub ahead of print]

In Vitro and In Vivo Radiosensitizing Effect of Valproic Acid on Fractionated
Irradiation.

Chie EK(1), Shin JH(1), Kim JH(1), Kim HJ(1), Kim IA(1), Kim IH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Seoul National University College of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Purpose: This study was conducted in order to validate the radiosensitization
effect of valproic acid, a biologically available histone deacetylase inhibitor, 
for fractionated radiation.
Materials and Methods: Radiosensitization effect of valproic acid was tested for 
the A549 cell line and U87MG cell line in vitro. Fractionated irradiation of 12
Gy in four fractions was administered on D2-5 with valproic acid, 150 mg/Kg, ip, 
bid for six consecutive days (D1-6) to A549 and U87MG tumors implanted in
BALB/c-nude mice. A growth delay curve was formulated.
Results: Radiosensitization effect of valproic acid was found for both cell
lines; A549 at 1.5 mM and 3.0 mM concentration and U87MG at 3.0 mM concentration.
In growth delay analysis, a statistically significant radiosensitization effect
was observed for both tumors (p < 0.001 for both tumors). Difference for change
in slope for control and valproic acid versus radiotherapy and radiotherapy plus 
valproic acid showed borderline significance for the U87MG cell line (p=0.065),
indicating beyond additive effect, whereas this difference was statistically
insignificant for A549 tumor (p=0.951), indicating additive effect.
Conclusion:
Results: of this study indicate that a radiosensitizing effect for fractionated
radiotherapy of valproic acid for A549 and U87MG tumors in vivo is evident and
that it may be more than additive for U87MG tumors. Further exploitation of
histone deacetylase inhibitors in clinical trials is warranted.

PMID: 25600060  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


918. Sleep. 2014 Nov 24. pii: sp-00540-14. [Epub ahead of print]

The Sleep Apnea cardioVascular Endpoints (SAVE) trial: Rationale, Ethics, Design,
and Progress.

Antic NA, Heeley E, Anderson CS, Luo Y, Wang J, Neal B, Grunstein R, Barbe F,
Lorenzi-Filho G, Huang S, Redline S, Zhong N, McEvoy RD.

Abstract: The Sleep Apnea cardioVascular Endpoints (SAVE) study is an ongoing
investigator- initiated and conducted, international, multicenter, open, blinded 
endpoint, randomized controlled trial that was designed to determine whether
treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) with continuous positive airways
pressure (CPAP) can reduce the risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) events in
patients with established CV disease (clinical trial registration NCT00738179).
The results of this study will have important implications for the provision of
health care to patients with sleep apnea around the world. The SAVE study has
brought together respiratory, sleep, CV and stroke clinicians-scientists in an
interdisciplinary collaboration with industry and government sponsorship to
conduct an ambitious clinical trial. Following its launch in Australia and China 
in late 2008, the recruitment network expanded across 89 sites that included New 
Zealand, India, Spain, USA, and Brazil for a total of 2,717 patients randomized
by December 2013. These patients are being followed until December 2015 so that
the average length of follow-up of the cohort will be over 4 y. This article
describes the rationale for the SAVE study, considerations given to the design
including how various cultural and ethical challenges were addressed, and
progress in establishing and maintaining the recruitment network, patient
follow-up, and adherence to CPAP and procedures. The assumptions underlying the
original trial sample size calculation and why this was revised downward in 2012 
are also discussed.
Clinical Trials Registration Number: NCT00738179.
Australia New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry Number: ACTRN12608000409370.

© 2014 Associated Professional Sleep Societies, LLC.

PMID: 25669180  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


919. Crit Care. 2014 Nov 20;18(6):606.

Predictive models for kidney disease: improving global outcomes (KDIGO) defined
acute kidney injury in UK cardiac surgery.

Birnie K, Verheyden V, Pagano D, Bhabra M, Tilling K, Sterne JA, Murphy GJ; on
behalf of the UK AKI in Cardiac Surgery Collaborators.

INTRODUCTION: Acute kidney injury (AKI) risk prediction scores are an objective
and transparent means to enable cohort enrichment in clinical trials or to risk
stratify patients preoperatively. Existing scores are limited in that they have
been designed to predict only severe, or non-consensus AKI definitions and not
less severe stages of AKI, which also have prognostic significance. The aim of
this study was to develop and validate novel risk scores that could identify all 
patients at risk of AKI.
METHODS: Prospective routinely collected clinical data (n = 30,854) were obtained
from 3 UK cardiac surgical centres (Bristol, Birmingham and Wolverhampton). AKI
was defined as per the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO)
Guidelines. The model was developed using the Bristol and Birmingham datasets,
and externally validated using the Wolverhampton data. Model discrimination was
estimated using the area under the ROC curve (AUC). Model calibration was
assessed using the Hosmer-Lemeshow test and calibration plots. Diagnostic utility
was also compared to existing scores.
RESULTS: The risk prediction score for any stage AKI (AUC = 0.74 (95% confidence 
intervals (CI) 0.72, 0.76)) demonstrated better discrimination compared to the
Euroscore and the Cleveland Clinic Score, and equivalent discrimination to the
Mehta and Ng scores. The any stage AKI score demonstrated better calibration than
the four comparison scores. A stage 3 AKI risk prediction score also demonstrated
good discrimination (AUC = 0.78 (95% CI 0.75, 0.80)) as did the four comparison
risk scores, but stage 3 AKI scores were less well calibrated.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first risk score that accurately identifies patients at 
risk of any stage AKI. This score will be useful in the perioperative management 
of high risk patients as well as in clinical trial design.

PMID: 25673427  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


920. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2014 Nov 20. pii: S2213-2198(14)00416-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jaip.2014.09.018. [Epub ahead of print]

Network Meta-analysis Shows Commercialized Subcutaneous and Sublingual Grass
Products Have Comparable Efficacy.

Nelson H(1), Cartier S(2), Allen-Ramey F(3), Lawton S(4), Calderon MA(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Jewish Health, Denver, Colo. Electronic address:
nelsonh@njhealth.org. (2)Optum Burlington, ON, Canada. (3)Merck & Co, Inc,
Whitehouse Station, NJ. (4)ALK Hørsholm, Denmark. (5)Imperial College London,
Section of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, National Heart and Lung Institute,
Royal Hospital Brompton, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Subcutaneous immunotherapy (SCIT) and sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT)
have been shown to effectively treat grass pollen allergies, although direct
comparisons are sparse.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the relative efficacy of SLIT tablets compared with SCIT
and SLIT drops in commercially available products though network meta-analysis.
METHODS: A literature search of MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane Library
publications. Randomized, double-blind clinical trials of SCIT, SLIT drops, and
SLIT tablets for grass pollen were included. Bayesian network meta-analyses
estimated the standardized mean difference (SMD) across 3 immunotherapy
modalities on allergic rhinoconjunctivitis symptom and medication score data from
publications or received from authors. Both fixed and random effects models were 
investigated.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven studies were included in meta-analyses for symptom scores
and 31 studies for medication scores. In the random effects model, SCIT and SLIT 
tablets were significantly different from placebo for symptom scores: SMDs (95%
CI) of -0.32 (-0.45 to -0.18) and -0.32 (-0.41 to -0.23), respectively. No
significant difference was identified for SLIT drops compared with placebo
(SMD, -0.17; -0.37 to 0.04). For medication scores, significant differences
compared with placebo were observed for SCIT (SMD, -0.33; 95% CI, -0.52
to -0.13), SLIT tablets (SMD, -0.23; 95% CI, -0.29 to -0.17), and SLIT drops
(SMD, -0.44; 95% CI, -0.83 to -0.06). Network meta-analysis revealed no
significant differences in SMDs (95% credible interval) for symptom scores
(0.0145 [-0.19 to 0.23]) or medication scores (0.133 [-0.31 to 0.57]) between
SLIT tablets and SCIT, or for symptom scores (-0.175 [-0.37 to 0.02]) and
medication scores (0.188 [-0.18 to 0.56]) between SLIT tablets and SLIT drops.
CONCLUSIONS: The comparisons for grass pollen immunotherapy products
commercialized in at least 1 country indicate comparable reductions in allergic
rhinoconjunctivitis symptoms and supplemental medication use for SLIT tablets and
SCIT in the first pollen season.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25609326  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


921. Trends Cardiovasc Med. 2014 Nov 20. pii: S1050-1738(14)00213-8. doi:
10.1016/j.tcm.2014.11.008. [Epub ahead of print]

Ventricular assist devices: The future is now.

Lima B(1), Mack M(2), Gonzalez-Stawinski GV(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Baylor University Medical Center, 3900 Junius
Street, Suite 605, Dallas, TX 75246. (2)Department of Cardiac Surgery, The Heart 
Hospital, Baylor Plano, Plano, TX. (3)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Baylor
University Medical Center, 3900 Junius Street, Suite 605, Dallas, TX 75246.
Electronic address: gonzo.gonzalez@baylorhealth.edu.

Heart failure has become a global epidemic. For advanced heart failure, a broad
assortment of device options have been introduced for both acute and prolonged
intervals of hemodynamic assistance. Durable implantable ventricular assist
devices (VADs) in particular play a key role in the management of advanced heart 
failure. This review focuses specifically on the current outcomes with VAD
therapy, highlights the results from pivotal clinical trials, and summarizes the 
various device options on the market and those in preclinical development.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25596799  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


922. Int J Cardiol. 2014 Nov 13. pii: S0167-5273(14)02242-6. doi:
10.1016/j.ijcard.2014.11.098. [Epub ahead of print]

Cardiovascular magnetic resonance for the assessment of coronary artery disease.

Gotschy A(1), Niemann M(2), Kozerke S(3), Lüscher TF(4), Manka R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Heart Center, University Hospital Zurich,
Zurich, Switzerland; Institute for Biomedical Engineering, University and ETH
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Division of Internal Medicine, University Hospital
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. (2)Department of Cardiology, University Heart
Center, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Institute for Biomedical
Engineering, University and ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. (3)Institute for
Biomedical Engineering, University and ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Imaging
Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, King's College, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Cardiology, University Heart Center, University Hospital Zurich,
Zurich, Switzerland. (5)Department of Cardiology, University Heart Center,
University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Institute for Biomedical
Engineering, University and ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; Institute of
Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland. Electronic address: Robert.manka@usz.ch.

Over the past decade, cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) has become an
established non-invasive imaging modality in cardiology. It provides clinicians
and researchers with an unparalleled versatility of diagnostic parameters such as
cardiac morphology, function, myocardial texture and vascular flow. One of the
most relevant applications of CMR is the assessment of patients with suspected or
known coronary artery disease (CAD). In large clinical trials, CMR has proven its
robustness, diagnostic performance and prognostic value in CAD. In patients with 
known or suspected chronic CAD, detection of ischaemia and myocardial viability
for guiding therapeutic decisions is a major strength of CMR. Patients with
ischaemic congestive heart failure (CHF) may benefit from CMR for planning of
device implantation or monitoring intracavital thrombi. Finally, the use of CMR
in the emergency department for the assessment of patients with acute chest pain 
is an emerging field, in which CMR's capability to characterize myocardial tissue
regarding e.g. necrosis, edema or microvascular obstruction (MVO) may prove
clinically useful. The CMR technology is safe, free of ionizing radiation and
proved higher diagnostic accuracy and superior cost efficiency compared with
other standard diagnostic modalities.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661667  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


923. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2014 Nov 2;10(11):3153-64. doi:
10.4161/21645515.2014.980686.

DNA vaccine for cancer immunotherapy.

Yang B(1), Jeang J, Yang A, Wu TC, Hung CF.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Pathology ; Johns Hopkins University ; Baltimore , MD USA.

DNA vaccination has emerged as an attractive immunotherapeutic approach against
cancer due to its simplicity, stability, and safety. Results from numerous
clinical trials have demonstrated that DNA vaccines are well tolerated by
patients and do not trigger major adverse effects. DNA vaccines are also very
cost effective and can be administered repeatedly for long-term protection.
Despite all the practical advantages, DNA vaccines face challenges in inducing
potent antigen specific cellular immune responses as a result of immune tolerance
against endogenous self-antigens in tumors. Strategies to enhance immunogenicity 
of DNA vaccines against self-antigens have been investigated including encoding
of xenogeneic versions of antigens, fusion of antigens to molecules that activate
T cells or trigger associative recognition, priming with DNA vectors followed by 
boosting with viral vector, and utilization of immunomodulatory molecules. This
review will focus on discussing strategies that circumvent immune tolerance and
provide updates on findings from recent clinical trials.

PMID: 25625927  [PubMed - in process]


924. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2014 Nov 2;10(11):3125-31. doi:
10.4161/21645515.2014.982993.

Clinical trials of dendritic cell-based cancer vaccines in hematologic
malignancies.

Pyzer AR(1), Avigan DE, Rosenblatt J.

Author information: 
(1)a Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center; Harvard Medical School ; Boston , MA
USA.

The potential for the immune system to target hematological malignancies is
demonstrated in the allogeneic transplant setting, where durable responses can be
achieved. However, allogeneic transplantation is associated with significant
morbidity and mortality related to graft versus host disease. Cancer
immunotherapy has the capacity to direct a specific cytotoxic immune response
against cancer cells, particularly residual cancer cells, in order to reduce the 
likelihood of disease relapse in a more targeted and tolerated manner. Ex vivo
dendritic cells can be primed in various ways to present tumor associated antigen
to the immune system, in the context of co-stimulatory molecules, eliciting a
tumor specific cytotoxic response in patients. Several approaches to prime
dendritic cells and overcome the immunosuppressive microenvironment have been
evaluated in pre-clinical and early clinical trials with promising results. In
this review, we summarize the clinical data evaluating dendritic cell based
vaccines for the treatment of hematological malignancies.

PMID: 25625926  [PubMed - in process]


925. Acta Med Port. 2014 Nov-Dec;27(6):726-30. Epub 2014 Dec 30.

[Adulthood langerhans cell histiocytosis: experience of two portuguese
hospitals].

[Article in Portuguese; Abstract available in Portuguese from the publisher]

Brito MD(1), Martins É(1), Andrade J(2), GuimarÉes J(2), Mariz J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Serviço de Onco-hematologia. Instituto Português de Oncologia. Porto.
Portugal. (2)Serviço Hematologia. Hospital de SÉo JoÉo. Porto. Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a heterogeneous disease, more
frequently diagnosed during childhood. Between 1/2001 and 12/2013, 20 adult
patients were admitted at both Hospitals. This work aimed at ccharacterizing this
population.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Retrospective study, review of clinical records.
RESULTS: 16 patients were eligible to analysis. The median age at diagnosis was
34 years (15-48); 10 males and 6 females. The referral motive was: respiratory
complaints - 37.5%; bone changes - 37.5%; dental complaints - 25%; constitutional
symptoms - 19%; mucocutaneous lesions - 6% and one patient (6%) was accidentally 
diagnosed after a thyroidectomy. The tissue of histological diagnosis was: bone -
50%; pulmonary tissue - 37.5%; liver, genital mucosa and thyroid - 6%,
respectively. Staging was: single organ involvement (uni/multifocal) - 69% and
multisystem disease in 31%. Clinical re-evaluation of these cases is being done
at the moment. The median follow up was 5 years (1 month - 11 years) and the
overall survival was 92%. Currently 19% are alive without signs of disease; 44%
are alive with disease; 25% are under treatment and 12% died.
DISCUSSION: These results agree with published literature. Considering the actual
guidelines 56% patients were incompletely staged, which probably lead to
suboptimal treatment. There is heterogeneity of clinical procedures aiming at
staging and treatment of these patients.
CONCLUSION: The diagnosis of adulthood Langerhans cell histiocytosis is difficult
considering the diversity of clinical behavior. Frequently this also leads to
diagnosis delay. Prospective international clinical trials enrolling adult
patients are important.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
PMID: 25641287  [PubMed - in process]


926. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2014 November-December;23(6):1011-1017. doi:
10.17219/acem/37360.

The Use of Stem Cells in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery.

Koźlik M(1), Wójcicki P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, Wroclaw Medical University, Polanica-Zdrój,
Poland.

As part of their clinical practice, plastic surgeons perform procedures in the
fields of skin and adipose tissue grafting, the reconstruction of compound tissue
loss and congenital malformations, the treatment of acute and chronic wounds and 
burns, as well as cosmetic surgery. On account of the great expectations
associated with their use in therapy, stem cells (SCs) are increasingly
frequently employed in in vitro experiments, animal models and clinical trials.
The most commonly utilized SCs for these purposes are adult stem cells (AS),
which are present in small amounts in every tissue; among these are two types of 
cells: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) and adipose-derived stem
cells (ADSCs). The aim of this review is to present current findings in
experimental research on the use of stem cells in the field of plastic and
reconstructive surgery. Many studies have described the progress of trials using 
ADSCs and BM-MSCs mainly in the treatment of compound tissue loss and chronic
wounds. The use of their paracrine, proangiogenic and osteogenic functions is
emphasized. However, because of the very high harvesting and culturing expenses
and the limited availability of data on their safety for human use, SCs are not
a first-choice therapy. Further developments in SC research and gradually
decreasing costs mean that along with commercial-scale SC culturing, the use of
SCs will become a viable alternative to traditional surgical procedures.

PMID: 25618130  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


927. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2014 Nov;12(11):749-756.

The use of adjuvant bisphophonates in the treatment of early-stage breast cancer.

Mathew A(1), Brufsky AM(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, PA. (2)University of
Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA.

Adjuvant treatment of breast cancer has resulted in significant improvement in
breast cancer-related outcomes. In addition to chemotherapy and endocrine
therapy, the bone-protective agents known as bisphosphonates have been
extensively investigated for their putative antitumor effect. Backed by strong
preclinical data from in vitro and in vivo models, several randomized clinical
trials have evaluated the role of bisphosphonates in an adjuvant setting. The
recent NSABP B-34 (National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project protocol
B-34) and AZURE (Adjuvant Zoledronic Acid to Reduce Recurrence) studies found no 
disease-free survival benefit with clodronate and zoledronate, respectively,
whereas the ABCSG-12 (Austrian Breast and Colorectal Cancer Study Group trial 12)
study found improvement in disease-free survival with zoledronate. Data from
these trials suggested a beneficial effect of bisphosphonates in older,
postmenopausal women and in premenopausal women treated with ovarian suppression.
Given the acceptable toxicity profile of bisphosphonates, these agents could be a
useful adjunct to adjuvant chemotherapy or endocrine treatment for early-stage
breast cancer in a carefully selected subset of patients. This review aims to
critically synthesize the results of clinical trials of adjuvant bisphosphonates 
in early-stage breast cancer, and to provide guidelines for the use of these
agents in early-stage breast cancer.

PMID: 25674714  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


928. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2014 Nov;12(11):737-748.

Development of a platform for systemic antiangiogenesis therapy for advanced
cervical cancer.

Tewari KS(1), Monk BJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Irvine, CA. (2)University of Arizona Cancer Center, 
Phoenix, AZ.

Women with metastatic, recurrent, or persistent cervical carcinoma historically
have had extremely limited treatment options. Systemic chemotherapy in these
settings is predominantly palliative and has been associated with platinum
resistance, nondurable responses, rapid progression of disease with deterioration
in quality of life, and early death. At the cooperative group level, efforts to
breach this clinical impasse have focused on incorporation of antiangiogenesis
therapy, medical optimization, and identification of less toxic regimens.
Gynecologic Oncology Group protocols 204 and 240, along with the Japanese
Clinical Oncology Group protocol 0505, make up the pivotal phase 3 clinical
trials that have provided 3 distinct treatment options. These options incorporate
the antiangiogenesis humanized monoclonal antibody bevacizumab in combination
with either a platinum-based or nonplatinum-based chemotherapy doublet. This
review will highlight the development of bevacizumab in advanced cervical cancer 
and address the relevance of the survival gain obtained using antiangiogenesis
therapy in this high-risk population.

PMID: 25674713  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


929. Indian J Med Res. 2014 Nov;140 Suppl:S63-72.

RISUG: An intravasal injectable male contraceptive.

Lohiya NK(1), Alam I, Hussain M, Khan SR, Ansari AS.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Advanced Studies, Department of Zoology, University of Rajasthan,
Jaipur, India.

Over the last two decades RISUG has been drawing attention in the field of male
contraception. It promises to sterile men for a period of up to 10-15 years.
According to recent studies in animal models, it proves to be completely
reversible. Practically, there are no better options available that can assure
complete sterility and precise reversibility. Regardless of so much of
information available, RISUG is still holding up for many reasons, firstly, the
available information engender bewilderment such as what is this copolymer, how
does it work and is reversal really possible? Secondly, advancement of this
outstanding invention is drastically slow and thirdly, effects of long-term
contraception with RISUG and reports on evaluation of anomalies (if any) in F 1 ,
F 2 progenies, are lacking. In this review the lacunae as well as advances in the
development of RISUG in the light of published work and available resources are
pointed out. Formulation of the RISUG, its mode of action and clinical trials
have been addressed with particular emphasis.

PMID: 25673546  [PubMed - in process]


930. Intractable Rare Dis Res. 2014 Nov;3(4):147-52. doi: 10.5582/irdr.2014.01025.

Participation of underrepresented minority children in clinical trials for
Fragile X syndrome and other neurodevelopmental disorders.

Chechi T(1), Siyahian S(1), Thairu L(2), Hagerman R(1), Lozano R(1).

Author information: 
(1)UC Davis MIND Institute and Department of Pediatrics, UC Davis Medical Center,
Sacramento, CA, USA; (2)Touro University, Public Health Program, Vallejo, CA,
USA.

The purpose of this study was to identify demographic data, motivational factors 
and barriers for participation in clinical trials (CTs) at the University of
California Davis, MIND Institute. We conducted a cross-sectional survey in 100
participants (81 females and 19 males). The participants had high education
levels (only 2% had not completed high school), a mean age of 44 years (SD ±
9.899) and had at least one child with a neurodevelopmental disorder. The
diagnosis of Fragile X syndrome (FXS) had a significant association with past
participation in CTs (p < 0.001). A statistical significance for age of diagnosis
and participation in CTs was also found (z = -2.01, p = 0.045). The motivating
factors were to help find cures/treatments for neurodevelopmental disorders and
to relieve symptoms related to child's diagnosis. Factors explaining lack of
participation, unwillingness to participate or unsure of participation were: lack
of information/knowledge about the trials, time commitment to participation
(screening, appointments, assessments, laboratory tests, etc.) and low annual
household income. These results show that a portion of underrepresented
minorities (URM) not participating in CTs are willing to participate and suggests
that reducing barriers, particularly lack of knowledge/information and time
commitment to trials are needed to improve recruitment.

PMCID: PMC4298644
PMID: 25606364  [PubMed]


931. J Drugs Dermatol. 2014 Nov 1;13(11):1388-92.

Transungual delivery of efinaconazole: its deposition in the nail of
onychomycosis patients and in vitro fungicidal activity in human nails.

Sakamoto M, Sugimoto N, Kawabata H, Yamakawa E, Kodera N, Pillai R, Tatsumi Y.

BACKGROUND: Effective transungual delivery of topical antifungal agents in
onychomycosis has been hampered by poor nail permeation. To be effective they
must have antifungal efficacy, and effectively permeate through the dense
keratinized nail plate to the site of infection in the nail bed and nail matrix. 
The therapeutic efficacy of efinaconazole topical solution, 10% has been
established in two phase 3 clinical trials in distal lateral subungual
onychomycosis.<BR />
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the transungual delivery of efinaconazole in
onychomycosis patients and its fungicidal activity in the toenail.<BR />
METHODS: Concentrations of efinaconazole were determined as part of a
multi-center, open label study in forty onychomycosis patients following repeated
application of efinaconazole topical solution, 5% and 10% to the toenails over 28
days, with a 2-week follow-up. Fungicidal activity against <em>T. rubrum</em> in 
the ventral layer of human nails was determined using an in vitro human nail
infection model (ChubTur&reg;).<BR />
RESULTS: Efinaconazole concentrations in the nail were four orders of magnitude
higher than MIC values of efinaconazole against dermatophytes. Further, nail drug
concentrations were not influenced by the presence of disease or nail thickness, 
and maintained at high antifungal levels post-treatment. Efinaconazole was
effective in reducing fungal viability, suggesting that sufficient amounts of
efinaconazole were being delivered into the ventral layer of the nail plate.<BR
/>
CONCLUSIONS: Effective transungual delivery of efinaconazole was demonstrated.
The high efinaconazole concentrations in patient toenails and fungicidal activity
in vitro potentially contribute to the clinical efficacy reported in phase 3
studies.<BR /><BR /> <EM>J Drugs Dermatol.</EM> 2014;13(11)1388-1392.

PMID: 25607707  [PubMed - in process]


932. J Indian Soc Periodontol. 2014 Nov-Dec;18(6):718-22. doi:
10.4103/0972-124X.147406.

Comparative evaluation of oxygen saturation during periodontal surgery with or
without oral conscious sedation in anxious patients.

Shivananda H(1), Raghava KV(2), Sudhakar SK(3), Thomas B(3), Dayakar MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontics, K.V.G. Dental College and Hospital, Sullia,
Karnataka, India. (2)Department of Periodontics, Rajiv Gandhi Dental College,
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India. (3)Department of Periodontics, A.B. Shetty Memorial 
Institute of Dental Sciences, Deralakatte, Mangalore, Karnataka, India.

CONTEXT: Stress and anxiety during dental procedure can alter respiratory rate
and thereby alter oxygen saturation in the blood, leading to emergencies like
syncope. It can be prevented by preoperative intravenous sedation. However, it
can lead to respiratory depression. Hence, this study was carried out to analyze 
the effect of oral conscious sedation on oxygen saturation during periodontal
surgery in anxious patients.
AIM: The aim was to compare the oxygen saturation levels during periodontal
surgery with and without oral conscious sedation using diazepam in anxious
patients.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study population consisted of 20 generalized
periodontitis patients, identified as anxious for dental treatment with dental
anxiety scale. A randomized split-mouth design was used with one quadrant of
surgery involving preoperative oral sedation (diazepam), and the second without
it. Oxygen saturation was monitored by pulse oximetry. Data were recorded at 5
time periods during the surgery.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: Mann-Whitney U-test.
RESULTS: No statistically significant difference between sedated and nonsedated
patients in oxygen saturation with P = 0.683.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral conscious sedation can be used for anxious patients during
periodontal surgery for alleviation of anxiety and for better patient acceptance 
during surgical procedures without significant respiratory depression.

PMCID: PMC4296455
PMID: 25624627  [PubMed]


933. Vnitr Lek. 2014 Nov;60(11):949-57.

[News in lipid lowering treatment].

[Article in Czech]

Vrablík M, Češka R.

Options for modification of lipoprotein metabolism and, thus, for reduction of
atherothrombotic complication have widened over recent years. Apart from the
development of novel approaches new pharmacological formulations of common lipid 
lowering drugs have been prepared- e.g. statin-containing nanoparticles, fibrate 
nanoparticles with a much higher bioavailability etc. Even the oldest lipid
lowering agents - resins - have not been forgotten due to its once again
discovered positive impact of these agents on glucose homeostasis while optimally
complementing the action of statins. Clinical trials of therapies targeting HDL
particle metabolism are being in progress despite we have not gathered any
unambiguous evidence of positive effect of the CETP inhibitors or apoA1 mime-tics
on the progression of atherosclerosis. Brand new approaches in the treatment of
dyslipidemia including MTTP and PCSK9 inhibition or therapies utilizing
anti-sense technologies rapidly accumulate evidence from clinical studies. We
have already learned about their lipid-modifying efficacy particularly in
patients with familial hypercholesterolemia, however, data from other patients´
populations can be expected quite soon.

PMID: 25600041  [PubMed - in process]


934. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 2014 Nov;42(11):957-62.

[Changes in the diagnosis and treatment of hospitalized patients with acute
coronary syndrome from 2006 to 2012 in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu J(1), Zhao D(1), Liu J(1), Qi Y(1), Sun J(1), Wang Y(1), Wang W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Institute of Beijing Heart, Lung and Blood Vessel 
Diseases, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing 100029,
China. (2)Department of Epidemiology, Institute of Beijing Heart, Lung and Blood 
Vessel Diseases, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing
100029, China. Email: wangwei_8851@sina.com.

OBJECTIVE: To observe the changes in the diagnosis and treatment of hospitalized 
patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) from 2006 to 2012 in China.
METHODS: Hospitalized patients with ACS in 2006 from 65 hospitals distributed in 
31 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities (data derived from the BRIG 
project phase I study, n = 3 323) and hospitalized in 2012 from 34 hospitals
distributed in 21 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities (data derived
from the BRIG project phase III study, n = 3 391) were included. Patients with
susceptible ACS, patients admitted to hospital due to trauma, or patients
participated in any drug clinical trials were excluded. Only patients with
complete data were analyzed. Data between 3 124 ACS patients from BRIG project-I 
and 3 124 ACS patients from BRIG project-III were compared.
RESULTS: (1) The ACS patients hospitalized in 2012 were younger than those
hospitalized in 2006 ((61.9 ± 11.2) years vs. (64.7 ± 11.5) years, P < 0.01), and
the percentage of patients ≤ 60 years was higher in patients hospitalized in 2012
((42.5% (1 327/3 124)) compared with those hospitalized in 2006 (32.1% (1 004/3
124), P < 0.05).(2) The percentages of ACS patients complicated with hypertension
((61.2% (1 853/3 124) vs. 53.0% (1 655/3 124)), diabetes (24.3% (760/3 124) vs.
16.4% (513/3 124)), and hypercholesterolemia (20.3% (633/3 124) vs. 6.3% (197/3
124)) were consistently higher in ACS patients hospitalized in 2012 than in
hospitalized ACS patients in 2006 (all P < 0.01).(3) The rate of coronary
angiogram examination increased from 28.6% (894/3 124) in 2006 to 68.6% (2 144/3 
124) in 2012 (P < 0.01) . Moreover, the rate of intervention treatment was
increased from 24.6% (770/3 124) in 2006 to 51.0% (1 594/3 124) in 2012 (P <
0.01). (4) The administration rate of aspirin (95.2% (2 975/3 124) vs. 91.7% (2
864/3 124) ), clopidogrel (85.6% (2 673/3 124) vs. 42.2% (1 318/3 124) ), and
statins (90.0% (2 812/3 124) vs. 69.8% (2 180/3 124) ) was significantly higher
in 2012 than in 2006 (all P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Compared with 2006, there is a trend of younger onset age for ACS and
higher proportions of complicated cardiovascular diseases, as well as improved
diagnosis and treatment strategies for Chinese ACS patients in 2012.

PMID: 25620260  [PubMed - in process]


935. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2014 Oct 29. pii: S2213-2198(14)00391-2. doi:
10.1016/j.jaip.2014.09.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Characterization of Anaphylaxis After Ecallantide Treatment of Hereditary
Angioedema Attacks.

Craig TJ(1), Li HH(2), Riedl M(3), Bernstein JA(4), Lumry WR(5), MacGinnitie
AJ(6), Stolz LE(7), Biedenkapp J(7), Chyung Y(7).

Author information: 
(1)Pennsylvania State University, Department of Medicine and Pediatrics, Hershey,
Pa. Electronic address: tcraig@psu.edu. (2)Institute for Asthma and Allergy,
Chevy Chase, Md. (3)US Hereditary Angioedema Association, Angioedema Center,
Allergy and Immunology, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, Calif.
(4)Division of Immunology/Allergy, Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio. (5)Allergy and Asthma
Specialists, Dallas, Texas. (6)Division of Immunology, Boston Children's
Hospital, Boston, Mass. (7)Dyax Corp., Burlington, Mass.

BACKGROUND: Ecallantide is a human plasma kallikrein inhibitor indicated for
treatment of acute attacks of hereditary angioedema for patients 12 years of age 
and older. Ecallantide is produced in Pichia pastoris yeast cells by recombinant 
DNA technology. Use of ecallantide has been associated with a risk of
hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this detailed retrospective data review was to
characterize anaphylaxis cases within the ecallantide clinical trials database.
METHODS: Potential cases of hypersensitivity reactions in the ecallantide
clinical development program were identified by examining reported adverse
events. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease criteria were
used to identify those events that were consistent with anaphylaxis; these cases 
were then reviewed in detail. Results from investigational antibody testing also 
were examined.
RESULTS: Among patients who received subcutaneous ecallantide (n = 230 patients; 
1045 doses of 30 mg ecallantide), 8 patients (3.5%) had reactions that met the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease criteria for anaphylaxis;
none occurred on first exposure to the drug. All 8 reactions had symptom onset
within 1 hour of exposure and cutaneous manifestations commonly observed in type 
I hypersensitivity reactions. All the reactions responded to standard management 
of type I hypersensitivity reactions and resolved without fatal outcomes. IgE
antibody testing to ecallantide or P pastoris was not consistently positive in
patients who experienced apparent type I hypersensitivity reactions.
CONCLUSION: Anaphylaxis episodes after subcutaneous ecallantide exposure have
clinical features suggestive of type I hypersensitivity reactions. However,
anti-ecallantide or anti-P pastoris IgE antibody status was not found to be
reliably associated with anaphylaxis.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25609335  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


936. BMC Med. 2014 Oct 24;12(1):197. [Epub ahead of print]

Five-step authorship framework to improve transparency in disclosing contributors
to industry-sponsored clinical trial publications.

Marušić A, Hren D, Mansi B, Lineberry N, Bhattacharya A, Garrity M, Clark J,
Gesell T, Glasser S, Gonzalez J, Hustad C, Lannon MM, Mooney LA, Peña T.

Authorship guidelines have established criteria to guide author selection based
on significance of contribution and helped to define associated responsibilities 
and accountabilities for the published findings. However, low awareness, variable
interpretation, and inconsistent application of these guidelines can lead to
confusion and a lack of transparency when recognizing those who merit authorship.
This article describes a research project led by the Medical Publishing Insights 
and Practices (MPIP) Initiative to identify current challenges when determining
authorship for industry-sponsored clinical trials and develop an improved
approach to facilitate decision-making when recognizing authors from related
publications. A total of 498 clinical investigators, journal editors, publication
professionals and medical writers were surveyed to understand better how they
would adjudicate challenging, real-world authorship case scenarios, determine the
perceived frequency of each scenario and rate their confidence in the responses
provided. Multiple rounds of discussions about these results with journal
editors, clinical investigators and industry representatives led to the
development of key recommendations intended to enhance transparency when
determining authorship. These included forming a representative group to
establish authorship criteria early in a trial, having all trial contributors
agree to these criteria and documenting trial contributions to objectively
determine who warrants an invitation to participate in the manuscript development
process. The resulting Five-step Authorship Framework is designed to create a
more standardized approach when determining authorship for clinical trial
publications. Overall, these recommendations aim to facilitate more transparent
authorship decisions and help readers better assess the credibility of results
and perspectives of the authors for medical research more broadly.

PMCID: PMC4209055
PMID: 25604352  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


937. Crit Care. 2014 Oct 20;18(5):575. doi: 10.1186/s13054-014-0575-0.

Circulating cytokines in predicting development of severe acute pancreatitis.

Rotstein OD.

Acute pancreatitis is an inflammatory disease process which may present with
clinical manifestations ranging from benign self-limited disease to overwhelming 
sepsis. The ability to predict outcome would be helpful in developing treatment
plans, and possibly in stratifying patients for clinical trials.

PMID: 25673030  [PubMed - in process]


938. Crit Care. 2014 Oct 15;18(5):578. doi: 10.1186/s13054-014-0578-x.

Year in review 2013: Critical Care - sepsis.

de Montmollin E, Annane D.

This review presents key publications from the research field of sepsis published
in Critical Care and other relevant journals during 2013. The results of these
experimental studies and clinical trials are discussed in the context of current 
scientific and clinical background. The discussion highlights and summarises
articles on four main topics: sepsis pathogenesis, diagnostic and prognostic
biomarkers, potential new therapies, and epidemiologic and outcome studies.

PMID: 25673430  [PubMed - in process]


939. Crit Care. 2014 Oct 13;18(5):561. doi: 10.1186/s13054-014-0561-6.

Analyzing the value of monitoring duodenal mucosal perfusion using
photoplethysmography.

Fink MP.

Photoplethysmography (PPG) is a technique that permits noninvasive measurement of
changes in the volume of tissues. A novel device uses PPG to assess changes in
duodenal mucosal perfusion. When tested in septic piglets, data obtained using
this device correlate with the blood lactate concentration and duodenal serosal
microvascular blood flow as measured with a laser Doppler flowmeter. This new
PPG-based approach for continuously monitoring gut mucosal perfusion warrants
further development, leading to prospective clinical trials in patients.

PMID: 25672458  [PubMed - in process]


940. Int J Cardiol. 2014 Oct 8;182C:517-522. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2014.10.006. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Bone marrow iron depletion is common in patients with coronary artery disease.

Jankowska EA(1), Wojtas K(2), Kasztura M(3), Mazur G(4), Butrym A(5), Kalicinska 
E(6), Rybinska I(7), Skiba J(2), von Haehling S(8), Doehner W(9), Anker SD(10),
Banasiak W(2), Cleland JG(11), Ponikowski P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Applied Research on Cardiovascular System, Department of Heart 
Diseases, Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland; Centre for Heart Diseases,
Military Hospital, Wroclaw, Poland. Electronic address:
ewa.jankowska@umed.wroc.pl. (2)Centre for Heart Diseases, Military Hospital,
Wroclaw, Poland. (3)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Immunology, Department
of Tumour Immunology, Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy, Polish
Academy of Sciences, Wroclaw, Poland. (4)Department of Internal and Occupational 
Diseases and Hypertension, Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland.
(5)Department of Haematology, Blood Neoplasms, and Bone Marrow Transplantation,
Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland; Department of Physiology, Wroclaw
Medical University, Wroclaw, Poland. (6)Centre for Heart Diseases, Military
Hospital, Wroclaw, Poland; Department of Heart Diseases, Wroclaw Medical
University, Wroclaw, Poland. (7)Department of Heart Diseases, Wroclaw Medical
University, Wroclaw, Poland. (8)Division of Applied Cachexia Research, Department
of Cardiology, Charité Medical School, Berlin, Germany. (9)Division of Applied
Cachexia Research, Department of Cardiology, Charité Medical School, Berlin,
Germany; Centre for Stroke Research Berlin, Charité Medical School, Berlin,
Germany. (10)Division of Applied Cachexia Research, Department of Cardiology,
Charité Medical School, Berlin, Germany; Department of Innovative Clinical
Trials, University Medical Centre Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany. (11)National
Heart & Lung Institute, Imperial College, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Iron deficiency (ID) may be an important, treatable
co-morbidity complicating cardiovascular diseases, but considerable uncertainty
exists about the diagnostic accuracy of blood tests. Accordingly, we investigated
the relationship between blood tests for ID and iron stores in bone marrow
aspirates, the diagnostic gold-standard for ID, in patients with stable coronary 
artery disease (CAD).
METHODS: Bone marrow aspirates were obtained from 65 patients with stable CAD
undergoing cardiac surgery and 10 healthy controls. ID was defined as depleted
extracellular iron stores (0-1 grade according to Gale scale) accompanied by ≤10%
of erythroblasts containing iron.
RESULTS: Bone marrow ID was found in 31 (48%) patients with CAD but in none of
the controls (p<0.01). Amongst patients with CAD, ID was present in 10 of 16
(63%) with and 21 of 49 (43%) without anaemia (p=0.17). The clinical profiles of 
patients with and without ID were similar. Of circulating biomarkers of ID, serum
soluble transferrin receptor had the strongest association with bone marrow ID
(area under curve: 0.876±0.048, 95% confidence interval: 0.762-0.948, for cut-off
of ≥1.32mg/L-sensitivity: 67%, specificity: 97%).
CONCLUSIONS: Almost half of patients with stable CAD have profound bone marrow
iron depletion that can be accurately assessed non-invasively using serum soluble
transferrin receptor.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25661858  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


941. Nutr Hosp. 2014 Oct 6;31(n02):570-576.

SAFETY IN THE HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA TREATMENT WITH N-3 POLYUNSATURATED FATTY ACIDS
ON GLUCOSE METABOLISM IN SUBJECTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS.

Gonçalves Reis CE(1), Câmara Landim K(2), Santos Nunes AC(3), Dullius J(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia, Brazil..
caioedureis@gmail.com. (2)Doce Desafio Program, University of Brasilia, Brazil.. 
caioedureis@gmail.com. (3)Department of Pharmacy, University of Brasilia,
Brazil.. caioedureis@gmail.com. (4)School of Physical Education, University of
Brasilia, Brazil.. caioedureis@gmail.com.

Introduction: Type 2 diabetes mellitus increases the risk of hypertriglyceridemia
and is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Current literature
reveals the beneficial effects of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) in
hypertriglyceridemia treatment, however the safety for type 2 diabetic subjects
are still debatable. This literature review discusses the safety on glucose
metabolism of n-3 PUFA supplementation in the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia
in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Methods: A literature review was
conducted on EMBASE and MEDLINE database to investigate clinical trials published
since 1990 until June 2014 that investigated the effects of
dietary/supplementation n-3 PUFA intake in hypertriglyceridemia treatment in
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Results and Discussion: Fourteen clinical
trials (n = 2,105) were included in this review. All trials reported a reduction 
in triglycerides levels between 12 - 34% in intra- group and 15 - 36% in
between-groups analysis. Four trials showed a significant increase in LDL-c (6 - 
18%) and another four in HDL-c levels (4 - 15%). No significant changes were
found to total cholesterol, VLDL-c, fasting glucose, HbA1C, and insulin
sensitivity index. Conclusions: The n-3 PUFA supplementation leads an improvement
on TG levels and did not result in any impairment on glucose metabolism in
hypertriglyceridemic patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus being a safe option
to treat the diabetic population.

Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher.
Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights
reserved.

PMID: 25617537  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


942. Acta Med Indones. 2014 Oct;46(4):298-307.

Effective Dose and Adverse Effects of Maintenance Bacillus Calmette-Gue'Rin in
Intermediate and High Risk Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer: a Meta-analysis of
Randomized Clinical Trial.

Astram A(1), Khadijah A, Yuri P, Zulfan A, Mochtar CA, Danarto R, Umbas R, Hamid 
AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine Universitas Indonesia - Cipto
Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jakarta, Indonesia.

AIM: to evaluate the effective dose and adverse effects of BCG doses.
METHODS: we searched published RCTs in Medline and Cochrane database before
October 2013. Article using maintenance BCG after TUR in intermediate-high risk
non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) and followed for effectiveness, local 
and systemic side effect are included. Low risk patients, other dose and MIBC
were excluded.
RESULTS: meta-analysis of 6 clinical trials involving 2719 intermediate-high risk
NMIBC patients showed recurrence rate in full dose (81 mg), low dose (27 mg) and 
very low dose (13.5 mg) were 33.3%, 34.7% and 30%, respectively. Meta-analysis of
2175 patients, 81 mg BCG was found to be superior to 27 mg in reducing tumour
recurrences (RR 0.86; 95% CI 0.77-0.96, I2 = 0% and p=0.008). Meta-analysis of
544 patients, the effectiveness reducing tumour recurrences in 27 mg BCG was
found to be superior to 13,5 BCG (RR 0.66; 95% CI 0.49-0.89, I2 = 8.8% and
p=0.006). Systemic side effects were happened in 25%, 28.5%, and 15.5% in the
doses 81.27 and 13.5 mg BCG, respectively. Low dose was superior to full dose in 
affecting systemic side effect (p=0,000) but no difference in affecting local
side effect (p=0.137) in the meta-analysis of 1816 patients in 2 clinical trials.
CONCLUSION: full dose BCG had superior outcome to reduce recurrences compared to 
low dose and very low dose. There were no significant differences between each
dose in local side effect. However full dose regimen has higher systemic side
effect compared to low and very low dose.

PMID: 25633546  [PubMed - in process]


943. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2014 Oct;12(10):659-65.

Update on the chemotherapeutic management of endometrial cancer.

Bregar A(1), Robison K(1), Dizon DS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Women and Infants Hospital, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, RI. (2)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA.

Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecologic cancer in the United States and
the fourth most common cancer in women. Although endometrial cancer most often
presents at an early stage, when surgical treatment is effective, chemotherapy
has become a critical component in the treatment of advanced or recurrent
endometrial cancer. The use of chemotherapy has evolved and is now often
administered to women with early-stage disease in the presence of high-risk
features (eg, clear cell or serous histology), or in the adjuvant setting for
women with advanced disease that has been surgically cytoreduced. There are no
agents approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for second-line or later
use in the setting of endometrial cancer. Options for women whose disease
progresses after adjuvant chemotherapy have varying success. Therapies that
target specific molecular pathways have emerged as promising treatments for
endometrial cancer. Given the poor response rates for systemic chemotherapy in
patients with advanced or recurrent disease, these novel agents have great
potential to influence our care for women with endometrial cancer. In this
article, we review the role of chemotherapy in the treatment of endometrial
cancer, with an emphasis on first- and second-line treatment and novel agents in 
clinical trials.

PMID: 25658891  [PubMed - in process]


944. J Clin Pediatr Dent. 2014 Fall;39(1):1-8.

MTA and ferric sulfate in pulpotomy outcomes of primary molars: a systematic
review and meta-analysis.

Asgary S(1), Shirvani A(1), Fazlyab M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Iranian Center for Endodontic Research, Research Institute of Dental Sciences,
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Dental Research 
Center, Research Institute of Dental Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Methods of systematic review and meta analysis were employed to
compare the success rate of pulpotomy of primary molars using mineral trioxide
aggregate (MTA) and ferric sulfate (FS) as two regenerative and preservative
agents, respectively.
STUDY DESIGN: After raising a PICO question (In pulpotomy of vital
carious-exposed primary molars, how does MTA compare to FS in terms of clinical
and radiographic outcomes?) and determining the search strategy, MeSH-matching
keywords were searched in four electronic databases and retrieved papers were
examined in titles, and if necessary abstracts and full texts, to be relevant.
Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) evaluating pulpotomy of vital primary molars
after carious/traumatic exposure conducted with either FS or MTA, with at least a
6-month recall, tooth restorability, and those considering clinical and
radiographic signs/symptoms, were included. The nonrandomized allocation and
absence of comparison between the treatment groups caused the exclusion of the
article. The quality of the RCTs and also their risk of bias (low, moderate,
high), were assessed using a modification of van Tulder list; for meta-analysis
of the matching studies, the extracted data were analyzed by Mantel Hanszel
analysis.
RESULTS: A total number of 620 articles were found. After exclusion of the common
titles and application of the eligibility criteria, 4 RCTs [12-month follow-up:
n=3, 24-month follow-up: n=4, in total: 264 teeth) comparing MTA and FS, were
selected. It was showed that the 12-month outcome of both materials were similar 
[RR= 0.642 (CI 95%: 0.225-1.833, P=0.407)], while the two-year follow-up results 
revealed significant differences in treatment outcome, in favor of MTA [RR was
0.300 (CI 95%: 0.132-0.683, P=0.004)].
CONCLUSION: MTA demonstrated superior long-term treatment outcomes in pulpotomy
of primary molars than FS.

PMID: 25631717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Methodist Debakey Cardiovasc J. 2014 Oct-Dec;10(4):214-9. doi:
10.14797/mdcj-10-4-214.

The expanding realm of endovascular neurosurgery: flow diversion for cerebral
aneurysm management.

Krishna C(1), Sonig A(1), Natarajan SK(1), Siddiqui AH(2).

Author information: 
(1)University at Buffalo, State University of New York, Buffalo, New York ; Gates
Vascular Institute/Kaleida Health, Buffalo, New York. (2)University at Buffalo,
State University of New York, Buffalo, New York ; Jacobs Institute, Buffalo, New 
York.

The worldwide prevalence of intracranial aneurysms is estimated to be between 5% 
and 10%, with some demographic variance. Subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to
ruptured intracranial aneurysm results in devastating neurological outcomes,
leaving the majority of victims dead or disabled. Surgical clipping of
intracranial aneurysms remained the definitive mode of treatment until Guglielmi 
detachable coils were introduced in the 1990s. This revolutionary innovation led 
to the recognition of neurointervention/neuroendovascular surgery as a bona fide 
option for intracranial aneurysms. Constant evolution of endovascular devices and
techniques supported by several prospective randomized trials has catapulted the 
endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms to its current status as the
preferred treatment modality for most ruptured and unruptured intracranial
aneurysms. We are slowly transitioning from the era of coils to the era of flow
diverters. Flow-diversion technology and techniques have revolutionized the
treatment of wide-necked, giant, and fusiform aneurysms, where the results of
microsurgery or conventional neuroendovascular strategies have traditionally been
dismal. Although the Pipeline™ Embolization Device (ev3-Covidien, Irvine, CA) is 
the only flow-diversion device approved by the Food and Drug Administration for
use in the United States, others are commercially available in Europe and South
America, including the Silk (Balt Extrusion, Montmorency, France),
Flow-Redirection Endoluminal Device (FRED; MicroVention, Tustin, CA), Surpass
(Stryker, Kalamazoo, MI), and p64 (Phenox, Bochum, Germany). Improvements in
technology and operator experience and the encouraging results of clinical trials
have led to broader acceptance for the use of these devices in cerebral aneurysm 
management. Continued innovation and refinement of endovascular devices and
techniques will inevitably improve technical success rates, reduce
procedure-related complications, and broaden the endovascular therapeutic
spectrum for varied aneurysm morphology.

PMCID: PMC4300059
PMID: 25624975  [PubMed - in process]


946. Nutr Clin Pract. 2014 Oct;29(5):615-20.

Nutrition and small bowel transplantation.

Mercer DF(1), Iverson AK, Culwell KA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, University of Nebraska
Medical Center, 983285 Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198-3285, USA. Email:
dmercer@unmc.edu

Intestinal transplantation is indicated for patients with intractable intestinal 
failure, especially when life-threatening complications of parenteral nutrition
(PN) occur. The rates of 1- and 5-year graft survival range from 65%–80% and
40%–50% across differing age ranges, with adult recipients generally performing
better. Despite nutrition being so central to intestinal transplantation, there
are little published literature and essentially no data from clinical trials. In 
this review, we critically examine published manuscripts in an attempt to draw
common themes between various transplant programs, covering experimental
physiologic data, published nutrition protocols, and common postoperative
management issues. We conclude that the well-established intestinal graft in a
healthy state absorbs key nutrients adequately to wean off PN and that the wide
variation in practice across different programs suggests that different
approaches can equally lead to success.

PMID: 25606643  [PubMed - in process]


947. Pneumologia. 2014 Oct-Dec;63(4):204, 207-11.

Long-term effects of nocturnal continuous positive airway pressure therapy in
patients with resistant hypertension and obstructive sleep apnea.

Frenţ ŞM, Tudorache VM, Ardelean C, Mihăicuţă S.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is often linked to high blood pressure and has a
particularly high prevalence in patients with resistant hypertension. The effect 
of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy on blood pressure (BP)
values has been evaluated in several short-term clinical trials with conflicting 
results. Our aim was to investigate the role of long-term CPAP treatment in
achieving BP control in patients who associate OSA and resistant hypertension. We
have included in the study 33 patients with resistant hypertension, diagnosed
with OSA in our sleep lab. Data was collected initially and after a mean
follow-up period of 4 years. Patients were divided into 2 groups according to the
use of CPAP therapy. Patients under CPAP therapy (n = 12) exhibited a higher
reduction in both systolic and diastolic pressure and BP control was achieved in 
75% of cases, while patients without CPAP treatment (n = 21) remained with
refractory hypertension in proportion of 90.5%. A de-escalation of
antihypertensive drug regimen by discontinuation of 1 or more drugs was observed 
in 41.6% (n = 5) of patients from CPAP group and in the other 33.4% (n = 4) the
medication remained unchanged, but BP control was reached. Using a direct
logistic regression model for examining the impact of different confounders on
the probability of diagnosis of resistant hypertension at follow-up, the only
statistically significant predictor found was the lack of CPAP usage.

PMID: 25665364  [PubMed - in process]


948. Crit Care. 2014 Sep 11;18(5):526. doi: 10.1186/s13054-014-0526-9.

Erythropoietin and organ protection: lessons from negative clinical trials.

Pearl RG.

Based on its pleiotropic effects, erythropoietin can decrease inflammation,
oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Erythropoietin provides organ protection for the
heart, brain, and kidney in diverse preclinical animal studies, especially models
that include ischemia-reperfusion injury and/or inflammation. However, large
clinical studies in coronary reperfusion, heart failure, stroke, acute kidney
injury, and chronic renal disease have failed to demonstrate improved outcomes. A
study in a previous issue of Critical Care examining the ability of
erythropoietin to prevent or ameliorate acute kidney injury in patients
undergoing complex valvular heart surgery is similarly negative. The failure of
erythropoietin in clinical studies may be due to an inadequate dose, since the
receptors responsible for organ protection may require higher concentrations than
those responsible for erythropoiesis. However, as has occurred in studies in
sepsis and acute respiratory distress syndrome, the negative studies probably
reflect an inadequate understanding of the complexity of the underlying processes
with multiple redundant and interacting pathways that may differ among the large 
number of different cell types involved. As tools to understand this complexity
and integrate it on an organismal basis continue to evolve, we will develop the
ability to use erythropoietin and related nonhematopoietic agents for organ
protection.

PMID: 25672222  [PubMed - in process]


949. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2014 Sep;12(9):578-87.

Smoldering multiple myeloma: pathophysiologic insights, novel diagnostics,
clinical risk models, and treatment strategies.

Kazandjian D(1), Mailankody S(1), Korde N(2), Landgren O(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute at the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland. (2)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York.

Smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM) is a plasma cell disorder first described in
1980 when 6 patients were observed to meet the diagnostic criteria of multiple
myeloma, defined as bone marrow plasmacytosis of 10% or greater or M protein
level of 3 g/dL or greater, but did not have end-organ damage. Subsequent studies
showed that the cumulative risk of SMM progression to symptomatic myeloma in 15
years was 73%. Since this time, advances have been made in understanding the
biology of progression; namely, the contribution of branching evolution and
microenvironment models to clonal heterogeneity. In parallel to this, clinical
risk models using standard platforms of serum, bone marrow, and fluorescence in
situ hybridization markers along with newer technologies of flow cytometry, gene 
expression profiling, and magnetic resonance imaging have been developed for
prognostic stratification. Treatment has extended to the early myeloma category
owing to more sensitive diagnostic approaches. The development of novel
treatments will have to take into consideration our current knowledge of
biological transformation. While it may be attractive to initiate early treatment
in light of recent studies for high-risk SMM patients, clinical trial evidence of
efficacy vs toxicity is still in its infancy. In our opinion, high-risk SMM
patients should be strongly encouraged to enroll in treatment clinical trials,
but treatment with unapproved agents or indications is not supported outside of
trials.

PMID: 25654479  [PubMed - in process]


950. Lijec Vjesn. 2014 Sep-Oct;136(9-10):278-90.

[Therapeutic exercise for patients with chronic low-back pain].

[Article in Croatian]

Grazio S, Grgurević L, Vlak T, Perić P, Nemčić T, Vrbanić TS, Kadojić M, Gnjidić 
Z, Grubišić F, Balen D, Vuga KL, Ćurković B.

Low Back Pain (LBP) is a major medical and socio-economical problem in the
industrialized countries. Exercise therapy is the keystone of conservative
treatment for chronic low back pain (CLBP). Numerous randomized trials and
clinical practice guidelines have supported that exercise diminishes disability
and pain severity while improving fitness and occupational status in patients
with CLBP, as well as decrease its recurrence rate. However, there is no
significant evidence that one particular type of exercise is clearly more
effective than others. Here we present a descriptive review of different types of
exercise for therapeutic or prevention purposes in patients with CLBP. Studies
suggest that individually tailored, supervised exercise programs are associated
with the best outcomes. High quality clinical trials are needed to determine the 
effectiveness of specific interventions (type, time, intensity and other
characteristics) aimed at individuals and/or specific target groups.

PMID: 25632773  [PubMed - in process]


951. Nutr Bull. 2014 Sep;39(3):238-246.

Formula food-reducing diets:A new evidence-based addition to the weight
management tool box.

Leeds AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Diabetes and Endocrinology, Central Middlesex Hospital London, UK ; Department
of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, Faculty of Science, University of Copenhagen
Denmark ; Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical
Sciences, University of Surrey UK ; Parker Institute, Frederiksberg Hospital
Copenhagen, Denmark.

The changing pattern of obesity-related disease has created a need for a greater 
range of weight management options for the increasing number of people for whom
weight loss and maintenance cannot be addressed by conventional dietary methods. 
Formula diet weight loss programmes [very low-calorie diets (VLCDs)
(400-800 kcal/day) and low-calorie diets (LCDs) (800-1200 kcal/day)] can deliver 
weight loss at rates of 1-2 kg/week. This rate of weight loss can result in
10-20 kg weight loss in 8-12 weeks. Many health benefits associated with weight
reduction seem to require between 10 and 20 kg weight loss. Formula diet
programmes can result in weight loss, reduction of liver volume and reduction of 
visceral fat before bariatric surgery; weight loss before knee joint replacement 
surgery has also been shown. The benefit of pre-operative weight loss is still
under investigation and such practices before bariatric surgery are variable in
surgical units across the UK. Weight loss with formula diet in obesity-associated
conditions where inflammation is an important component, such as osteoarthritis
and psoriasis, has been demonstrated. Maintenance of about 10% of initial
bodyweight loss, with symptom improvement in elderly obese people with knee
osteoarthritis, has been shown over a period of 4 years. In obese people with
psoriasis, weight loss with skin improvement has been maintained for 1 year.
Clinical trials are currently underway to examine the merits of an initial weight
loss with formula diet in pre-diabetes, in early type 2 diabetes and in
insulin-treated type 2 diabetes. Rapid initial weight loss can result in rapid
symptom improvement, such as reduced joint pain in osteoarthritis, improved sleep
quality in obstructive sleep apnoea, reduced shortness of breath on exertion,
reduced peripheral oedema and rapid improvement in metabolic control in diabetes,
all changes that are highly motivating and conducive towards compliance. There is
also some evidence for improved vitamin D status and maintained bone health in
elderly obese people with osteoarthritis but more research is needed. Rapid
initial weight loss was feared to be followed by rapid weight regain. However,
provided initial weight loss is delivered in parallel with an intense education
programme about nutrition, cooking, shopping and lifestyle for long-term
maintenance; and where long-term support is provided, subsequent weight
maintenance after VLCDs and LCDs has been shown to be possible. A recent
literature review identified high-protein diets, obesity drugs and partial use of
formula meal replacements as methods which can result in statistically
significantly greater weight maintenance after initial weight loss with VLCDs or 
LCDs. Anxiety about serious adverse side effects seems to be unfounded although
users need to be aware of both minor and more serious, though very infrequent,
adverse events, such as gallstones and gallbladder disease.

PMCID: PMC4314695
PMID: 25663817  [PubMed]


952. Med Hypotheses. 2014 Aug 27. pii: S0306-9877(14)00306-5. doi:
10.1016/j.mehy.2014.08.022. [Epub ahead of print]

Effective activity of cytokine induced killer cells against hepatocellular
carcinoma including tumor-initiating cells.

Rong X(1), Wei F(2), Li A(1), Xiao D(2), Luo R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou 510515, Guangdong Province, China. (2)Cancer Research Institute,
Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, Guangdong Province, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou 510515, Guangdong Province, China. Electronic address: luorc01@163.com.

Tumor-initiating cells (TICs) are a subpopulation of chemoresistant tumor cells
that have been shown to cause tumor recurrence. Targeting and eliminating of TICs
are therefore priorities for the development of new therapeutic paradigms. Much
promise lies in adoptive immunotherapy. Cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells are
heterogeneous ex vivo-expanded T lymphocytes, with a mixed T-NK phenotype. It
represents a realistic new option in the field of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
immunotherapy. In the very recent years, large clinical trials demonstrated that 
CIK cells could improve the Progression Free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival 
(OS) in patients with HCC. By the same time, several studies reported that CIK
cells were capable of clearing cells with stemness features in lymphoma,
melanoma, bone and soft-tissue sarcomas. Based on the findings above mentioned,
we hypothesized that CIK cells could eliminate the tumor-initiating cells,
improving the PFS and OS of patients with HCC when combined with radiofrequency
ablation (RFA) or transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE).

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 25636604  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


953. Int J Hematol Oncol Stem Cell Res. 2014 Jul 1;8(3):44-54.

A review of arsenic trioxide and acute promyelocytic leukemia.

Alimoghaddam K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Professor of medicine, research institute for oncology hematology and stem
cell transplantation, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Shariati Hospital,
Kargar Ave. Tehran, 14114, IRAN.

Arsenic Trioxide is an old drug that has recently re- introduced into new
medicine. It is very potent against a specific type of leukemic cells harboring
translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17. It has been demonstrated that this
drug is effective against all stages of acute promyelocytic leukemia, including
for remission induction of relapsed cases, or as first-line treatment. It is also
useful in the consolidation/maintenance phase of treatment. Many trials are
ongoing to determine the best and optimum schedule for this drug as a single
agent or in combination with other drugs. In the future, its indications might
extend to other malignancies. In this review, we will study biologic effects of
arsenic trioxide on APL cells and the results of clinical trials on the treatment
of APL. We will also discuss the toxicity and minimal residual detection during
patient follow-up.

PMCID: PMC4305381
PMID: 25642308  [PubMed]


954. J Clin Trials. 2014 Jun 20;4:170.

Rhodiola rosea therapy for major depressive disorder: a study protocol for a
randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled trial.

Mao JJ(1), Li QS(2), Soeller I(2), Xie SX(3), Amsterdam JD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Community Health, Perelman School of
Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA ; Center for
Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics and Department of Biostatistics and
Epidemiology, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, PA ; Abramson Cancer Center, Perelman School of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. (2)Department of Family Medicine
and Community Health, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. (3)Center for Clinical Epidemiology and
Biostatistics and Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Perelman School
of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. (4)Depression
Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, Perelman School of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.

BACKGROUND: Rhodiola rosea (R. rosea), a botanical of both western and
traditional Chinese medicine, has been used as a folk remedy for improving
stamina and reducing stress. However, few controlled clinical trials have
examined the safety and efficacy of R. rosea for the treatment of major
depressive disorder (MDD). This study seeks to evaluate the safety and efficacy
of R. rosea in a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel 
group study design.
METHODS / DESIGN: Subjects with MDD not receiving antidepressant therapy will be 
randomized to either R. rosea extract 340-1,360 mg daily; sertraline 50-200 mg
daily, or placebo for 12 weeks. The primary outcome measure will be change over
time in the mean 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating score. Secondary outcome
measures will include safety and quality of life ratings. Statistical procedures 
will include mixed-effects models to assess efficacy for primary and secondary
outcomes.
DISCUSSION: This study will provide valuable preliminary information on the
safety and efficacy data of R. rosea versus conventional antidepressant therapy
of MDD. It will also inform additional hypotheses and study design of future,
fully powered, phase III clinical trials with R. rosea to determine its safety
and efficacy in MDD.

PMCID: PMC4297663 [Available on 2015-06-20]
PMID: 25610752  [PubMed]


955. Oncotarget. 2014 Jun 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Up-regulation of CDK9 kinase activity and Mcl-1 stability contributes to the
acquired resistance to cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors in leukemia.

Yeh YY(1), Chen R(2), Hessler J(1), Mahoney E(1), Lehman AM(3), Heerema NA(4),
Grever MR(1), Plunkett W(2), Byrd JC(5), Johnson AJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA. (2)Department of
Experimental Therapeutics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas, USA. (3)Center for Biostatistics, The Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio, USA. (4)Department of Pathology, The Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio, USA. (5)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA.
Division of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, Ohio, USA.

Flavopiridol is a small molecule inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK)
known to impair global transcription via inactivation of positive transcription
elongation factor b. It has been demonstrated to have significant activity
predominantly in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia in phase
I/II clinical trials while other similar CDK inhibitors are vigorously being
pursued in pre-clinical and clinical studies. Although flavopiridol is a potent
therapeutic agent against blood diseases, some patients still have primary or
acquired resistance throughout their clinical course. Considering the limited
knowledge of resistance mechanisms of flavopiridol, we investigated the potential
mechanisms of resistance to flavopiridol in a cell line system, which gradually
acquired resistance to flavopiridol in vitro, and then confirmed the mechanism in
patient samples. Herein, we present that this resistant cell line developed
resistance through up-regulation of phosphorylation of RNA polymerase II
C-terminal domain, activation of CDK9 kinase activity, and prolonged Mcl-1
stability to counter flavopiridol's drug actions. Further analyses suggest
MAPK/ERK activation-mediated Mcl-1 stabilization contributes to the resistance
and knockdown of Mcl-1 in part restores sensitivity to flavopiridol-induced
cytotoxicity. Altogether, these findings demonstrate that CDK9 is the most
relevant target of flavopiridol and provide avenues to improve the therapeutic
strategies in blood malignancies.

PMID: 25596730  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


956. Appl Clin Trials. 2014 Jun-Jul;23(6-7):46-50.

Optimizing Clinical Trial Enrollment Methods Through "Goal Programming"

Davis JM, Sandgren AJ, Manley AR, Daleo MA, Smith SS.

INTRODUCTION: Clinical trials often fail to reach desired goals due to poor
recruitment outcomes, including low participant turnout, high recruitment cost,
or poor representation of minorities. At present, there is limited literature
available to guide recruitment methodology. This study, conducted by researchers 
at the University of Wisconsin Center for Tobacco Research and Intervention
(UW-CTRI), provides an example of how iterative analysis of recruitment data may 
be used to optimize recruitment outcomes during ongoing recruitment.
STUDY METHODOLOGY: UW-CTRI's research team provided a description of methods used
to recruit smokers in two randomized trials (n = 196 and n = 175). The trials
targeted low socioeconomic status (SES) smokers and involved time-intensive
smoking cessation interventions. Primary recruitment goals were to meet required 
sample size and provide representative diversity while working with limited funds
and limited time. Recruitment data was analyzed repeatedly throughout each study 
to optimize recruitment outcomes.
RESULTS: Estimates of recruitment outcomes based on prior studies on smoking
cessation suggested that researchers would be able to recruit 240 low SES smokers
within 30 months at a cost of $72,000. With employment of methods described
herein, researchers were able to recruit 374 low SES smokers over 30 months at a 
cost of $36,260.
DISCUSSION: Each human subjects study presents unique recruitment challenges with
time and cost of recruitment dependent on the sample population and study
methodology. Nonetheless, researchers may be able to improve recruitment outcomes
though iterative analysis of recruitment data and optimization of recruitment
methods throughout the recruitment period.

PMCID: PMC4310466
PMID: 25642125  [PubMed]


957. J Dent (Tehran). 2014 May;11(3):310-8. Epub 2014 May 31.

Critical appraisal of reporting randomized clinical trials published in Iranian
dental journals during 2003-2010.

Habib Agahi R(1), Navabi N(2), Shahravan A(3), Ghassemi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dentist, Private Practice, Department of Oral Medicine, Kerman Dental School, 
Kerman University of Medical Sciences. (2)Assistant Professor, Department of Oral
Medicine, Kerman Dental School, Kerman University of Medical Sciences.
(3)Associated Professor, Kerman Oral and Dental Research Centre, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences.

OBJECTIVE: Considering the importance of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) in the
evidence-based approach, the objective of this study was critical appraisal of
reporting RCTs in Iranian dental journals.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After adequate searching, 113 RCT articles published
during 2003-2010 were reviewed for quality of reporting with the CONSORT scale.
The quality of each paper was assessed on 20.
RESULTS: Although statistical analysis was described in 93.8%, acceptable methods
for randomization and blinding were found in only 8% and 11.5% of the papers,
respectively. Reasons for withdrawal were also given in just 20.4% of the
articles.
CONCLUSION: This study revealed that the quality of reporting RCTs in Iranian
dental journals does not meet the recommended standards generally and needs to be
improved.

PMCID: PMC4290759
PMID: 25628666  [PubMed]


958. Nurs J India. 2014 May-Jun;105(3):101-4.

Assessment of knowledge of nurses regarding bioethics.

Saini R, Saini P, Alagh P.

Nurses involved in research, whether as a principal investigator, a study
coordinator, clinical trials nurse, or as a staff nurse caring for patients who
are research subjects have a responsibility to promote the ethical conduct of
clinical research. Will a registered nurse be ever able to challenge and infact
unearth the unscrupulous medical practices which make poor patients guinea pigs
in pharmaceutical company-sponsored clinical trials? Keeping this in view an
exploratory study was carried out to assess the knowledge of bioethics among MSc 
Nursing students studying in recognised Nursing Colleges of North India. 92
percent of MSc nursing students scored below average knowledge regarding
bioethics even after studying ethics in MSc (N) 1st year and B.Sc. Nursing degree
programme. This research study strongly recommends the Indian Nursing Council-the
statutory licensing body of nurses in India to ensure strict compliance of all
researches (at masters as well as bachelors level) in nursing education with all 
the principles and components of bioethics. Need of the hour is to include at
least one clinical nurse in the Institutional Ethics Committee in every medical
and research institution.

PMID: 25643561  [PubMed - in process]


959. Eur J Med Chem. 2014 Jan 18;92C:575-582. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2014.01.013. [Epub
ahead of print]

Synthesis and pharmacological evaluation of benzannulated derivatives as potent
and selective sigma-1 protein ligands.

Donnier-Maréchal M(1), Carato P(2), Le Broc D(3), Furman C(4), Melnyk P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Univ Lille Nord de France, F-59000 Lille, France; UDSL, EA 4481, UFR
Pharmacie, F-59000 Lille, France. Electronic address:
marion.donnier-marechal@univ-lille2.fr. (2)Univ Lille Nord de France, F-59000
Lille, France; UDSL, EA 4481, UFR Pharmacie, F-59000 Lille, France. Electronic
address: pascal.carato@univ-lille2.fr. (3)Univ Lille Nord de France, F-59000
Lille, France; UDSL, EA 4483, UFR Pharmacie, F-59000 Lille, France. Electronic
address: delphine.lebroc@univ-lille2.fr. (4)Univ Lille Nord de France, F-59000
Lille, France; UDSL, EA 4483, UFR Pharmacie, F-59000 Lille, France. Electronic
address: christophe.furman@univ-lille2.fr. (5)Univ Lille Nord de France, F-59000 
Lille, France; UDSL, EA 4481, UFR Pharmacie, F-59000 Lille, France. Electronic
address: patricia.melnyk@univ-lille2.fr.

The σ1 proteins are considered to be a new class of target structures for several
central nervous system disorders, including depression, anxiety, psychosis, and
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Recently, the involvement of these
receptors in neuropathic pain and cancer has also been observed. So far, only a
few ligands are in clinical trials. In a continuation of our previous studies on 
the development of σ1 ligands, a new series of benzannulated heterocycles was
designed and synthesised. In vitro competition binding assays showed that many of
them possessed high σ1 receptor affinity (Ki = 0.6-10.3 nM), and good σ2/σ1
subtype selectivity, without cytotoxic effects on SY5Y cells (human neuroblastoma
cell line).

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25602932  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


960. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2014 Dec 24;6(9):89. doi: 10.1186/s13195-014-0089-7.
eCollection 2014.

BACE1 inhibitor drugs in clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease.

Vassar R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Northwestern University, The
Feinberg School of Medicine, 303 E. Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611 USA.

β-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is the β-secretase
enzyme required for the production of the neurotoxic β-amyloid (Aβ) peptide that 
is widely considered to have a crucial early role in the etiology of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). As a result, BACE1 has emerged as a prime drug target for reducing 
the levels of Aβ in the AD brain, and the development of BACE1 inhibitors as
therapeutic agents is being vigorously pursued. It has proven difficult for the
pharmaceutical industry to design BACE1 inhibitor drugs that pass the blood-brain
barrier, however this challenge has recently been met and BACE1 inhibitors are
now in human clinical trials to test for safety and efficacy in AD patients and
individuals with pre-symptomatic AD. Initial results suggest that some of these
BACE1 inhibitor drugs are well tolerated, although others have dropped out
because of toxicity and it is still too early to know whether any will be
effective for the prevention or treatment of AD. Additionally, based on newly
identified BACE1 substrates and phenotypes of mice that lack BACE1, concerns have
emerged about potential mechanism-based side effects of BACE1 inhibitor drugs
with chronic administration. It is hoped that a therapeutic window can be
achieved that balances safety and efficacy. This review summarizes the current
state of progress in the development of BACE1 inhibitor drugs and the evaluation 
of their therapeutic potential for AD.

PMCID: PMC4304279
PMID: 25621019  [PubMed]


961. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2014 Dec 20;6(9):87. doi: 10.1186/s13195-014-0087-9.
eCollection 2014.

Imaging endpoints for clinical trials in Alzheimer's disease.

Cash DM(1), Rohrer JD(2), Ryan NS(2), Ourselin S(1), Fox NC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Centre, Box 16, The National Hospital for Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London, WC1N 3BG UK ; Translational Imaging Group,
Centre for Medical Image Computing, University College of London, 3rd Floor,
Wolfson House, 4 Stephenson Way, London, NW1 2HE UK. (2)Dementia Research Centre,
Box 16, The National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Queen Square,
London, WC1N 3BG UK.

As the need to develop a successful disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer's
disease (AD) becomes more urgent, imaging is increasingly used in therapeutic
trials. We provide an overview of how the different imaging modalities are used
in AD studies and the current regulatory guidelines for their use in clinical
trials as endpoints. We review the current literature for results of imaging
endpoints of efficacy and safety in published clinical trials. We start with
trials in mild to moderate AD, where imaging (largely magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI)) has long played a role in inclusion and exclusion criteria; more recently,
MRI has been used to identify adverse events and to measure rates of brain
atrophy. The advent of amyloid imaging using positron emission tomography has led
to trials incorporating amyloid measurements as endpoints and incidentally to the
recognition of the high proportion of amyloid-negative individuals that may be
recruited into these trials. Ongoing and planned trials now commonly include
multimodality imaging: amyloid positron emission tomography, MRI and other
modalities. At the same time, the failure of recent large profile trials in mild 
to moderate AD together with the realisation that there is a long prodromal
period to AD has driven a push to move studies to earlier in the disease. Imaging
has particularly important roles, alongside other biomarkers, in assessing
efficacy because conventional clinical outcomes may have limited ability to
detect treatment effects in these early stages.

PMCID: PMC4304258
PMID: 25621018  [PubMed]


962. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2014 Dec 19;6(9):86. doi: 10.1186/s13195-014-0086-x.
eCollection 2014.

Eyes-closed task-free electroencephalography in clinical trials for Alzheimer's
disease: an emerging method based upon brain dynamics.

van Straaten EC(1), Scheltens P(2), Gouw AA(3), Stam CJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, VU University Medical Center, de
Bolelaan 1118, P.O. box 7057, 1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands ; Nutricia
Research, Nutricia Advanced Medical Nutrition, Utrecht Science Park, Uppsalalaan 
12, 3584 CT Utrecht, The Netherlands. (2)Alzheimer Center & Department of
Neurology, VU University Medical Center, de Boelelaan 1118, P.O. box 7057,
1007 MB Amsterdam, the Netherlands. (3)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, VU
University Medical Center, de Bolelaan 1118, P.O. box 7057, 1007 MB Amsterdam,
The Netherlands ; Alzheimer Center & Department of Neurology, VU University
Medical Center, de Boelelaan 1118, P.O. box 7057, 1007 MB Amsterdam, the
Netherlands. (4)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, VU University Medical
Center, de Bolelaan 1118, P.O. box 7057, 1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Electroencephalography (EEG) is a longstanding technique to measure electrical
brain activity and thereby an indirect measure of synaptic activity. Synaptic
dysfunction accompanies Alzheimer's disease (AD) and EEG can be regarded as a
potentially useful biomarker in this disease. Lately, emerging analysis
techniques of time series have become available for EEG, such as functional
connectivity and network analysis, which have increased the possibilities for use
in AD clinical trials. In this review, we report the EEG changes in the course of
AD, including slowing of the EEG oscillations, decreased functional connectivity 
in the higher-frequency bands, and decline in optimal functional network
organization. We discuss the use of EEG in clinical trials and provide directions
for future research.

PMCID: PMC4304266
PMID: 25621017  [PubMed]


963. Am J Neurodegener Dis. 2014 Dec 5;3(3):158-69. eCollection 2014.

Validation of an Alzheimer's disease assessment battery in Asian participants
with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

Shen JH(1), Shen Q(2), Yu H(3), Lai JS(4), Beaumont JL(4), Zhang Z(5), Wang H(6),
Kim SY(7), Chen C(8), Kwok T(9), Wang SJ(10), Lee DY(11), Harrison J(12),
Cummings J(13).

Author information: 
(1)Pfizer Inc Shanghai, China. (2)Clinical Science, Pfizer Inc 500 Arcola Rd,
Collegeville, PA, USA. (3)Pfizer Inc 500 Arcola Rd, Collegeville, PA, USA.
(4)Medical Social Sciences, Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern
University Chicago Illinois, USA. (5)Department of Neurology, Peking Union
Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Services Beijing 100730,
China. (6)DementiaCare & ResearchCenter, Clinical Research Division, Peking
University Institute of Mental Health Beijing, China. (7)Department of
Psychiatry, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan, Medical College Seoul
Korea. (8)Department of Pharmacology, National University of Singapore Singapore.
(9)Department of Medicine & Therapeutics (Geriatric division), Prince of Wales
Hospital, The Chinese University of Hong Kong Hong Kong, China. (10)Faculty of
Medicine, National Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Department of
Neurology, Neurological Institute, Taipei Veterans General Hospital Taipei,
Taiwan. (11)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University College of
Medicine Seoul, Korea. (12)Metis Cognition Ltd. Kilmington Common UK ; Department
of Medicine, Imperial College London, UK. (13)Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center
for Brain Health Las Vegas, NV; Cleveland, OH: Weston, FL, USA.

There is a lack of validated tools for assessing Alzheimer's disease (AD) across 
Asia. This study evaluates the psychometric properties of the Alzheimer's Disease
Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog), Disability Assessment for
Dementia (DAD), and Neuropsychological Test Battery (NTB) in Asian participants. 
Participants with mild to moderate AD (n=251) and healthy controls (n=51) from
Mainland China, Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, and South Korea completed selected 
instruments at several time points. Test-retest reliability was better than 0.70 
for all tests. AD participants performed significantly more poorly than controls 
on every score. Within the AD group, greater disease severity corresponded to
significantly poorer performance. The AD group test performance worsened over
time and there was a trend for worse performance in AD compared to healthy
controls over time. The ADAS-Cog, DAD, and NTB are reliable, valid, and
responsive measures in this population and could be used for clinical trials
across Asian countries/regions.

PMCID: PMC4299719
PMID: 25628967  [PubMed]


964. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2014;15(24):10977-9.

Cantharidin combined with chemotherapy for chinese patients with metastatic
colorectal cancer.

Han L(1), Sun YJ, Pan YF, Ding H, Chen X, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Huadong Hospital of Fudan
University, Shanghai, China E-mail : uniquemedicated@sohu.com.

BACKGROUND: This systematic analysis was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and
safety of cantharidin combined with chemotherapy in treating Chinese patients
with metastatic colorectal cancer.
METHODS: Clinical studies evaluating the efficacy and safety of cantharidin
combined with chemotherapy on response and safety for Chinese patients with
colorectal cancer were identified using a predefined search strategy. Pooled
response rate (RR) of treatment were calculated.
RESULTS: When cantharidin combined with chemotherapy, 4 clinical studies which
included 155 patients with advanced colorectal cancer were considered eligible
for inclusion. The systematic analysis suggested that, in all patients, pooled RR
was 46.5% (72/155) in cantharidin combined regimens. Major adverse effects were
neutropenia, leukopenia, fatigue, and anemia with cantharidin combined treatment;
no treatment related deaths occurred.
CONCLUSION: This systematic analysis suggests that cantharidin combined regimens 
are associated with high response rate and accepted toxicity in treating Chinese 
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer suggesting that randomized clinical
trials are now warranted.

PMID: 25605212  [PubMed - in process]


965. Breast Cancer Res. 2014;16(5):460.

New concepts in breast cancer genomics and genetics.

Goncalves R(1), Warner WA, Luo J, Ellis MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Breast Cancer Program, Department of Medical Oncology, Washington University
School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave, St Louis 63110, MO, USA; Siteman Cancer
Center, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Ave, St Louis
63110, MO, USA; Lester and Sue Smith Breast Center, Baylor College of Medicine,
One Baylor Plaza, 320A Cullen MS600, Houston 77030, TX, USA.

Massively parallel DNA and RNA sequencing approaches have generated data on
thousands of breast cancer genomes. In this review, we consider progress largely 
from the perspective of new concepts and hypotheses raised so far. These include 
challenges to the multistep model of breast carcinogenesis and the discovery of
new defects in DNA repair through sequence analysis. Issues for functional
genomics include the development of strategies to differentiate between mutations
that are likely to drive carcinogenesis and bystander background mutations, as
well as the importance of mechanistic studies that examine the role of mutations 
in genes with roles in splicing, histone methylation, and long non-coding RNA
function. The application of genome-annotated patient-derived breast cancer
xenografts as a potentially more reliable preclinical model is also discussed.
Finally, we address the challenge of extracting medical value from genomic data. 
A weakness of many datasets is inadequate clinical annotation, which hampers the 
establishment of links between the mutation spectra and the efficacy of drugs or 
disease phenotypes. Tools such as dGene and the DGIdb are being developed to
identify possible druggable mutations, but these programs are a work in progress 
since extensive molecular pharmacology is required to develop successful
‘genome-forward’ clinical trials. Examples are emerging, however, including
targeting HER2 in HER2 mutant breast cancer and mutant ESR1 in ESR1 endocrine
refractory luminal-type breast cancer. Finally, the integration of DNA- and
RNA-based sequencing studies with mass spectrometry-based peptide sequencing and 
an unbiased determination of post-translational modifications promises a more
complete view of the biochemistry of breast cancer cells and points toward a new 
discovery horizon in our understanding of the pathophysiology of this complex
disease.

PMID: 25606588  [PubMed - in process]


966. Crit Rev Biomed Eng. 2014;42(3-4):193-212.

Drug-coated percutaneous balloon catheters.

Betala JV(1), Langan Iii EM(2), LaBerge M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, Greenville Health System, Greenville, South
Carolina. (3)Department of Bioengineering, Clemson University Biomedical
Engineering Innovation Campus Clemson University.

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty revolutionized coronary and peripheral
revascularization. However, it is always accompanied by major drawbacks such as
elastic recoil and neointimal hyperplasia. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty 
along with bare metal stents reduced elastic recoil, but in-stent restenosis
(ISR) and peripheral artery stenting remain problems. Drug-eluting stents
addressed the issue of ISR, but late stent thrombosis and delayed
endothelialization, along with longer dual antiplatelet therapy, are of concern. 
Non-stent-based delivery such as drug-coated balloons (DCBs) that can deliver
drugs to inhibit ISR or to de novo lesions, are emerging at a rapid pace. DCBs
carry an active drug and a nonpolymeric carrier molecule or excipient that
enhance the bioavailability of the drug to the vessel wall. Preliminary studies
of paclitaxel show sustained delivery is not required to inhibit proliferation of
vascular smooth muscle cells, which leds to the development and evolution of
DCBs. Recent clinical trials have been successful in mitigating ISR in coronary
and peripheral arteries, but not in de novo lesions of coronary arteries.
Clinical studies, although limited to date, show a promising future for DCBs.

PMID: 25597236  [PubMed - in process]


967. Drugs Context. 2014 Dec 19;3:212264. doi: 10.7573/dic.212264. eCollection 2014.

Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors: a growing class of
antidiabetic agents.

Vivian EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.

Although several treatment options are available to reduce hyperglycemia, only
about half of individuals with diagnosed diabetes mellitus (DM) achieve
recommended glycemic targets. New agents that reduce blood glucose concentrations
by novel mechanisms and have acceptable safety profiles are needed to improve
glycemic control and reduce the complications associated with type 2 diabetes
mellitus (T2DM). The renal sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) is responsible
for reabsorption of most of the glucose filtered by the kidney. Inhibitors of
SGLT2 lower blood glucose independent of the secretion and action of insulin by
inhibiting renal reabsorption of glucose, thereby promoting the increased urinary
excretion of excess glucose. Canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, and empagliflozin are 
SGLT2 inhibitors approved as treatments for T2DM in the United States, Europe,
and other countries. Canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, and empagliflozin increase
renal excretion of glucose and improve glycemic parameters in patients with T2DM 
when used as monotherapy or in combination with other antihyperglycemic agents.
Treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors is associated with weight reduction, lowered
blood pressure, and a low intrinsic propensity to cause hypoglycemia. Overall,
canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, and empagliflozin are well tolerated. Cases of
genital infections and, in some studies, urinary tract infections have been more 
frequent in canagliflozin-, dapagliflozin-, and empagliflozin-treated patients
compared with those receiving placebo. Evidence from clinical trials suggests
that SGLT2 inhibitors are a promising new treatment option for T2DM.

PMCID: PMC4295914
PMID: 25598831  [PubMed]


968. F1000Res. 2014 Sep 15;3:222. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.5218.1. eCollection
2014.

A review of creatine supplementation in age-related diseases: more than a
supplement for athletes.

Smith RN(1), Agharkar AS(1), Gonzales EB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Neuroscience, UNT Health Science Center, Fort
Worth, TX, TX, 76107, USA. (2)Department of Pharmacology & Neuroscience, UNT
Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, TX, 76107, USA ; Institute for Aging and
Alzheimer's Disease Research, UNT Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, TX,
76107, USA ; Cardiovascular Research Institute, UNT Health Science Center, Fort
Worth, TX, TX, 76107, USA.

Creatine is an endogenous compound synthesized from arginine, glycine and
methionine. This dietary supplement can be acquired from food sources such as
meat and fish, along with athlete supplement powders. Since the majority of
creatine is stored in skeletal muscle, dietary creatine supplementation has
traditionally been important for athletes and bodybuilders to increase the power,
strength, and mass of the skeletal muscle. However, new uses for creatine have
emerged suggesting that it may be important in preventing or delaying the onset
of neurodegenerative diseases associated with aging. On average, 30% of muscle
mass is lost by age 80, while muscular weakness remains a vital cause for loss of
independence in the elderly population. In light of these new roles of creatine, 
the dietary supplement's usage has been studied to determine its efficacy in
treating congestive heart failure, gyrate atrophy, insulin insensitivity, cancer,
and high cholesterol. In relation to the brain, creatine has been shown to have
antioxidant properties, reduce mental fatigue, protect the brain from
neurotoxicity, and improve facets/components of neurological disorders like
depression and bipolar disorder. The combination of these benefits has made
creatine a leading candidate in the fight against age-related diseases, such as
Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,
long-term memory impairments associated with the progression of Alzheimer's
disease, and stroke. In this review, we explore the normal mechanisms by which
creatine is produced and its necessary physiology, while paying special attention
to the importance of creatine supplementation in improving diseases and disorders
associated with brain aging and outlining the clinical trials involving creatine 
to treat these diseases.

PMCID: PMC4304302
PMID: 25664170  [PubMed]


969. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Jan 20;8:464. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2014.00464.
eCollection 2014.

Gene expression changes in spinal motoneurons of the SOD1(G93A) transgenic model 
for ALS after treatment with G-CSF.

Henriques A(1), Kastner S(2), Chatzikonstantinou E(2), Pitzer C(2), Plaas C(2),
Kirsch F(2), Wafzig O(2), Krüger C(2), Spoelgen R(2), Gonzalez De Aguilar JL(1), 
Gretz N(3), Schneider A(2).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, U1118, Mécanismes Centraux et Péripheriques de la Neurodégénérescence 
Strasbourg, France ; UMRS1118, Fédération de Médecine Translationnelle de
Strasbourg Université de Strasbourg, France. (2)Sygnis Bioscience GmbH & Co KG
Heidelberg, Germany. (3)Medical Research Center, Medical Faculty Mannheim,
University of Heidelberg Mannheim, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an incurable fatal motoneuron 
disease with a lifetime risk of approximately 1:400. It is characterized by
progressive weakness, muscle wasting, and death ensuing 3-5 years after
diagnosis. Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a drug candidate for 
ALS, with evidence for efficacy from animal studies and interesting data from
pilot clinical trials. To gain insight into the disease mechanisms and mode of
action of G-CSF, we performed gene expression profiling on isolated lumbar
motoneurons from SOD1(G93A) mice, the most frequently studied animal model for
ALS, with and without G-CSF treatment.
RESULTS: Motoneurons from SOD1(G93A) mice present a distinct gene expression
profile in comparison to controls already at an early disease stage (11 weeks of 
age), when treatment was initiated. The degree of deregulation increases at a
time where motor symptoms are obvious (15 weeks of age). Upon G-CSF treatment,
transcriptomic deregulations of SOD1(G93A) motoneurons were notably restored.
Discriminant analysis revealed that SOD1 mice treated with G-CSF has a
transcriptom close to presymptomatic SOD1 mice or wild type mice. Some
interesting genes modulated by G-CSF treatment relate to neuromuscular function
such as CCR4-NOT or Prss12.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that G-CSF is able to re-adjust gene expression in 
symptomatic SOD1(G93A) motoneurons. This provides further arguments for G-CSF as 
a promising drug candidate for ALS.

PMCID: PMC4299451
PMID: 25653590  [PubMed]


970. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Jan 20;8:457. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2014.00457.
eCollection 2014.

Ginseng: a promising neuroprotective strategy in stroke.

Rastogi V(1), Santiago-Moreno J(2), Doré S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Anesthesiology, Center for Translational Research in
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville,
FL, USA ; Departments of Neurology, Center for Translational Research in
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville,
FL, USA. (2)Departments of Anesthesiology, Center for Translational Research in
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville,
FL, USA. (3)Departments of Anesthesiology, Center for Translational Research in
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville,
FL, USA ; Departments of Neurology, Center for Translational Research in
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville,
FL, USA ; Departments of Psychiatry, Center for Translational Research in
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville,
FL, USA ; Departments of Neuroscience, Center for Translational Research in
Neurodegenerative Disease, University of Florida College of Medicine Gainesville,
FL, USA.

Ginseng is one of the most widely used herbal medicines in the world. It has been
used in the treatment of various ailments and to boost immunity for centuries;
especially in Asian countries. The most common ginseng variant in traditional
herbal medicine is ginseng, which is made from the peeled and dried root of Panax
Ginseng. Ginseng has been suggested as an effective treatment for a vast array of
neurological disorders, including stroke and other acute and chronic
neurodegenerative disorders. Ginseng's neuroprotective effects are focused on the
maintenance of homeostasis. This review involves a comprehensive literature
search that highlights aspects of ginseng's putative neuroprotective
effectiveness, focusing on stroke. Attenuation of inflammation through inhibition
of various proinflammatory mediators, along with suppression of oxidative stress 
by various mechanisms, including activation of the cytoprotective transcriptional
factor Nrf2, which results in decrease in reactive oxygen species, could account 
for its neuroprotective efficacy. It can also prevent neuronal death as a result 
of stroke, thus decreasing anatomical and functional stroke damage. Although
there are diverse studies that have investigated the mechanisms involved in the
efficacy of ginseng in treating disorders, there is still much that needs to be
clarified. Both in vitro and in vivo studies including randomized controlled
clinical trials are necessary to develop in-depth knowledge of ginseng and its
practical applications.

PMCID: PMC4299449
PMID: 25653588  [PubMed]


971. Front Immunol. 2015 Jan 12;5:673. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2014.00673. eCollection
2014.

Cancer Immunotherapy by Targeting IDO1/TDO and Their Downstream Effectors.

Platten M(1), von Knebel Doeberitz N(2), Oezen I(2), Wick W(3), Ochs K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Clinic, University Hospital Heidelberg and National Center for Tumor
Diseases , Heidelberg , Germany ; DKTK Clinical Cooperation Unit Neuroimmunology 
and Brain Tumor Immunology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) , Heidelberg ,
Germany. (2)DKTK Clinical Cooperation Unit Neuroimmunology and Brain Tumor
Immunology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) , Heidelberg , Germany.
(3)Neurology Clinic, University Hospital Heidelberg and National Center for Tumor
Diseases , Heidelberg , Germany ; DKTK Clinical Cooperation Unit Neurooncology,
German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) , Heidelberg , Germany.

The tryptophan (TRP) to kynurenine (KYN) metabolic pathway is now firmly
established as a key regulator of innate and adaptive immunity. A plethora of
preclinical models suggests that this immune tolerance pathway - driven by the
key and rate-limiting enzymes indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase and TRP-2,3-dioxygenase
- is active in cancer immunity, autoimmunity, infection, transplant rejection,
and allergy. Drugs targeting this pathway, specifically
indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase, are already in clinical trials with the aim at
reverting cancer-induced immunosuppression. In the past years, there has been an 
increase in our understanding of the regulation and downstream mediators of TRP
metabolism, such as the aryl hydrocarbon receptor as a receptor for KYN and
kynurenic acid. This more detailed understanding will expand our opportunities to
interfere with the pathway therapeutically on multiple levels. Here, we discuss
the perspective of targeting TRP metabolism at these different levels based on
reviewing recent insight into the regulation of TRP metabolism and its downstream
effectors.

PMCID: PMC4290671
PMID: 25628622  [PubMed]


972. Front Med (Lausanne). 2015 Jan 14;1:61. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2014.00061. eCollection
2014.

Perspective: the challenge of clinical decision-making for drug treatment in
older people. The role of multidimensional assessment and prognosis.

Pilotto A(1), Sancarlo D(2), Daragjati J(1), Panza F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Geriatrics Unit, Azienda ULSS 16 Padova, Hospital S. Antonio , Padova , Italy 
; Geriatric Unit, Laboratory of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Department of Medical
Sciences, IRCCS "Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza" , San Giovanni Rotondo, Foggia ,
Italy. (2)Geriatric Unit, Laboratory of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Department of
Medical Sciences, IRCCS "Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza" , San Giovanni Rotondo, 
Foggia , Italy. (3)Geriatric Unit, Laboratory of Gerontology and Geriatrics,
Department of Medical Sciences, IRCCS "Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza" , San
Giovanni Rotondo, Foggia , Italy ; Neurodegenerative Disease Unit, Department of 
Basic Medicine, Neuroscience, and Sense Organs, University of Bari Aldo Moro ,
Bari , Italy.

A complex decision path with a careful evaluation of the risk-benefit ratio is
mandatory for drug treatment in advanced age. Enrollment biases in randomized
clinical trials (RCTs) cause an under-representation of older individuals. In
high-risk frail older subjects, the lack of RCTs makes clinical decision-making
particularly difficult. Frail individuals are markedly susceptible to adverse
drug reactions, and frailty may result in reduced treatment efficacy. Life
expectancy should be included in clinical decision-making paths to better assess 
the benefits and risks of different drug treatments in advanced age. We performed
a scoping review of principal hospital- and community-based prognostic indices in
older age. Mortality prognostic tools could help clinical decision-making in
diagnostics and therapeutics, tailoring appropriate intervention for older
patients. The effectiveness of drug treatments may be significantly different in 
older patients with different risk of mortality. Clinicians need to consider the 
prognostic information obtained through well-validated, accurate, and calibrated 
predictive tools to identify those patients who may benefit from drug treatments 
given with the aim of increasing survival.

PMCID: PMC4294213
PMID: 25593930  [PubMed]


973. Front Neurol. 2015 Jan 7;5:274. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2014.00274. eCollection 2014.

Efficacy and Safety of Panax notoginseng Saponin Therapy for Acute Intracerebral 
Hemorrhage, Meta-Analysis, and Mini Review of Potential Mechanisms of Action.

Xu D(1), Huang P(1), Yu Z(2), Xing DH(3), Ouyang S(4), Xing G(5).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Nursing, Guangxi University of Chinese Medicine , Nanning , China. 
(2)Department of Oncology, Huanggang Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine ,
Huanggang , China. (3)Thomas Wootton High School , Rockville, MD , USA. (4)School
of Business, University of Alberta , Edmonton, AB , Canada. (5)Lotus Biotech.com 
LLC , Rockville, MD , USA.

Intracranial/intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a leading cause of death and
disability in people with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and stroke. No proven drug
is available for ICH. Panax notoginseng (total saponin extraction, PNS) is one of
the most valuable herb medicines for stroke and cerebralvascular disorders in
China. We searched for randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs) involving PNS
injection to treat cerebral hemorrhage for meta-analysis from various databases
including the Chinese Stroke Trials Register, the trials register of the Cochrane
Complementary Medicine Field, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials,
MEDLINE, Chinese BioMedical disk, and China Doctorate/Master Dissertations
Databases. The quality of the eligible trials was assessed by Jadad's scale.
Twenty (20) of the 24 identified randomized controlled trials matched the
inclusive criteria including 984 ICH patients with PNS injection and 907 ICH
patients with current treatment (CT). Compared to the CT groups, PNS-treated
patients showed better outcomes in the effectiveness rate (ER), neurological
deficit score, intracranial hematoma volume, intracerebral edema volume, Barthel 
index, the number of patients died, and incidence of adverse events.CONCLUSION:
PNS injection is superior to CT for acute ICH. A review of the literature shows
that PNS may exert multiple protective mechanisms against ICH-induced brain
damage including hemostasis, anti-coagulation, anti-thromboembolism, cerebral
vasodilation, invigorated blood dynamics, anti-inflammation, antioxidation, and
anti-hyperglycemic effects. Since vitamin C and other brain cell activators (BCA)
that are not considered common practice were also used as parts of the CT in
several trials, potential PNS and BCA interactions could exist that may have made
the effect of PNS therapy less or more impressive than by PNS therapy alone.
Future PNS trials with and without the inclusion of such controversial BCAs as
part of the CT could clarify the situation. As PNS has a long clinical track
record in Asia, it could potentially become a therapy option to treat ICH in the 
US and Europe. Further clinical trials with better experimental design could
determine the long-term effects of PNS treatment for TBI and stroke.

PMCID: PMC4288044
PMID: 25620952  [PubMed]


974. Front Oncol. 2015 Jan 6;4:374. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00374. eCollection 2014.

Challenges of clinical trial design for targeted agents against pediatric
leukemias.

Mussai FJ(1), Yap C(2), Mitchell C(3), Kearns P(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Cancer Sciences, University of Birmingham , Birmingham , UK.
(2)Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Unit, School of Cancer Sciences, University
of Birmingham , Birmingham , UK. (3)Department of Paediatric Oncology, John
Radcliffe Hospital, University of Oxford , Oxford , UK.

The past 40 years have seen significant improvements in both event-free and
overall survival for children with acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemia
(ALL and AML, respectively). Serial national and international clinical trials
have optimized the use of conventional chemotherapeutic drugs and, along with
improvements in supportive care that have enabled the delivery of more intensive 
regimens, have been responsible for the major improvements in patient outcome
seen over the past few decades. However, the benefits of dose intensification
have likely now been maximized, and over the same period, the identification of
new cytotoxic drugs has been limited. Therefore, challenges remain if survival is
to be improved further. In pediatric ALL, 5-year-survival rates of over 85% have 
been achieved with risk-stratified therapy, but a notable minority of patients
will still not be cured. In pediatric AML, different challenges remain. A slower 
improvement in overall survival has taken place in this patient population.
Despite the obvious morphological heterogeneity of AML blasts, biological
stratification is comparatively limited, and translation into risk-stratified
therapeutic approaches has only best characterized by the use of retinoic acid
for t(15;17)-positive AML. Even where prognostic markers have been identified,
limited therapeutic options or multi-drug resistance of AML blasts has limited
the impact on patient benefit. For both, the acute morbidities of current
treatment remain significant and may be life-threatening alone. In addition, the 
Childhood Cancer Survivor Study (CCSS) highlighted many leukemia survivors
develop one or more chronic medical conditions attributable to treatment (1, 2). 
As the biology of leukemogenesis has become better understood, key molecules and 
intracellular pathways have been identified that offer the possibility of
targeting directly the leukemia cells while sparing normal cells. Consequently,
there is now a drive to develop novel leukemia-specific or "targeted" therapies. 
These new classes of drugs will have mechanisms of action, toxicities, and
therapeutic indices quite different from conventional cytotoxic drugs previously 
encountered, thus rendering current clinical trial methodologies inappropriate.
Clinical trial methods will need to be adapted to accommodate these features of
these new classes of drugs. This review will address the challenges and some of
the techniques for developing clinical trials for targeted therapies.

PMCID: PMC4285052
PMID: 25610810  [PubMed]


975. Front Oncol. 2015 Jan 5;4:341. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00341. eCollection 2014.

Notching on Cancer's Door: Notch Signaling in Brain Tumors.

Teodorczyk M(1), Schmidt MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Signal Transduction Laboratories, Institute for Microscopic Anatomy 
and Neurobiology, Focus Program Translational Neuroscience (FTN), Rhine Main
Neuroscience Network (rmn2), Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz School of
Medicine , Mainz , Germany.

Notch receptors play an essential role in the regulation of central cellular
processes during embryonic and postnatal development. The mammalian genome
encodes for four Notch paralogs (Notch 1-4), which are activated by three
Delta-like (Dll1/3/4) and two Serrate-like (Jagged1/2) ligands. Further,
non-canonical Notch ligands such as epidermal growth factor like protein 7
(EGFL7) have been identified and serve mostly as antagonists of Notch signaling. 
The Notch pathway prevents neuronal differentiation in the central nervous system
by driving neural stem cell maintenance and commitment of neural progenitor cells
into the glial lineage. Notch is therefore often implicated in the development of
brain tumors, as tumor cells share various characteristics with neural stem and
progenitor cells. Notch receptors are overexpressed in gliomas and their
oncogenicity has been confirmed by gain- and loss-of-function studies in vitro
and in vivo. To this end, special attention is paid to the impact of Notch
signaling on stem-like brain tumor-propagating cells as these cells contribute to
growth, survival, invasion, and recurrence of brain tumors. Based on the outcome 
of ongoing studies in vivo, Notch-directed therapies such as γ-secretase
inhibitors and blocking antibodies have entered and completed various clinical
trials. This review summarizes the current knowledge on Notch signaling in brain 
tumor formation and therapy.

PMCID: PMC4283135
PMID: 25601901  [PubMed]


976. Front Physiol. 2015 Jan 14;5:522. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2014.00522. eCollection
2014.

Alzheimer's disease: the amyloid hypothesis and the Inverse Warburg effect.

Demetrius LA(1), Magistretti PJ(2), Pellerin L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University
Cambridge, MA, USA ; Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics Berlin, Germany.
(2)Division of Biological and Environmental Sciences and Engineering, King
Abdullah University of Science and Technology Thuwal, Saudi Arabia ; Laboratory
of Neuroenergetics and Cellular Dynamics, Brain Mind Institute, Ecole
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne Lausanne, Switzerland. (3)Laboratory of
Neuroenergetics, Department of Physiology, University of Lausanne Lausanne,
Switzerland.

Epidemiological and biochemical studies show that the sporadic forms of
Alzheimer's disease (AD) are characterized by the following hallmarks: (a) An
exponential increase with age; (b) Selective neuronal vulnerability; (c) Inverse 
cancer comorbidity. The present article appeals to these hallmarks to evaluate
and contrast two competing models of AD: the amyloid hypothesis (a neuron-centric
mechanism) and the Inverse Warburg hypothesis (a neuron-astrocytic mechanism). We
show that these three hallmarks of AD conflict with the amyloid hypothesis, but
are consistent with the Inverse Warburg hypothesis, a bioenergetic model which
postulates that AD is the result of a cascade of three events-mitochondrial
dysregulation, metabolic reprogramming (the Inverse Warburg effect), and natural 
selection. We also provide an explanation for the failures of the clinical trials
based on amyloid immunization, and we propose a new class of therapeutic
strategies consistent with the neuroenergetic selection model.

PMCID: PMC4294122
PMID: 25642192  [PubMed]


977. Front Surg. 2014 Jul 21;1:28. doi: 10.3389/fsurg.2014.00028. eCollection 2014.

Mid-Gestational Enlargement of Fetal Thalami in Women Exposed to Methadone during
Pregnancy.

Schulson M(1), Liu A(2), Björkman T(3), Quinton A(4), Mann KP(5), Benzie R(6),
Peek M(4), Nanan R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Paediatrics, Sydney Medical School - Nepean, The University of
Sydney , Penrith, NSW , Australia. (2)Discipline of Paediatrics, Sydney Medical
School - Nepean, The University of Sydney , Penrith, NSW , Australia ; Charles
Perkins Centre - Nepean, The University of Sydney , Penrith, NSW , Australia.
(3)Perinatal Research Centre, UQ Centre for Clinical Research, The University of 
Queensland , Herston, QLD , Australia. (4)Charles Perkins Centre - Nepean, The
University of Sydney , Penrith, NSW , Australia ; Discipline of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, Sydney Medical School - Nepean, The University of Sydney , Penrith, 
NSW , Australia. (5)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, The University of Sydney ,
Camperdown, NSW , Australia. (6)Discipline of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Sydney 
Medical School - Nepean, The University of Sydney , Penrith, NSW , Australia.

Methadone maintenance therapy is the standard of care in many countries for
opioid-dependent women who become pregnant. Despite recent evidence showing
significant neurodevelopmental changes in children and adults exposed to both
licit and illicit substances in utero, data on the effects of opioids in
particular remains scarce. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects
of opiate use, in particular methadone, on various fetal cortical and biometric
growth parameters in utero using ultrasound measurements done at 18-22 weeks
gestation. Head circumference (HC), bi-parietal diameter, lateral ventricle
diameter, transcerebellar diameter, thalamic diameter, cisterna magna diameter,
and femur length were compared between fetuses born to methadone-maintained
mothers and non-substance using controls. A significantly larger thalamic
diameter (0.05 cm, p = 0.01) was observed in the opiate-exposed group. Thalamic
diameter/HC ratio was also significantly raised (0.03 mm, p = 0.01). We
hypothesize here that the increase in thalamic diameter in opiate-exposed fetuses
could potentially be explained by regional differences in opioid and serotonin
receptor densities, an alteration in monoamine neurotransmitter systems, and an
enhancement of the normal growth increase that occurs in the thalamus during
mid-gestation.

PMCID: PMC4286970
PMID: 25593952  [PubMed]


978. J Diabetes Metab Disord. 2014 Dec 31;13(1):115. doi: 10.1186/s40200-014-0115-0.
eCollection 2014.

Efficacy and safety of Samtropin™ recombinant human growth hormone; a
double-blind randomized clinical trial.

Tabatabaei-Malazy O(1), Mohajeri-Tehrani MR(2), Heshmat R(3), Taheri E(2),
Shafiee G(3), Razzaghy-Azar M(4), Rabbani A(5), Qorbani M(6), Adibi H(2),
Shahbazi S(2), Karimi F(2), Rezaian S(2), Larijani B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology & Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran 
; Diabetes Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism Clinical Sciences
Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (2)Endocrinology 
& Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism Clinical Sciences
Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (3)Chronic
Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism Population Sciences
Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (4)Inborn Error
of Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Institute,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (5)Growth & Development
Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran ; Children's Medical 
Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. (6)Department of
Public Health, Alborz University of Medical Sciences, Karaj, Iran ;
Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.

BACKGROUND: Recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) can increase the growth rate 
in growth hormone deficient children (GHD). In this randomized clinical trial, we
compared the efficacy and side effects of an Iranian brand; Samtropin with
Norditropin.
METHODS: The GHD children were randomly treated either with standard dose of
Samtropin or Norditropin rhGH for one year. Upstanding height, height standard
deviation score (HSDS), growth velocity (GV), serum levels of insulin like growth
factor-1 (IGF-1), and bone age (BA) were determined before and during one year
treatment concomitant side effects of treatment.
RESULTS: We evaluated 22 subjects; 12 on Samtropin and, 10 on Norditropin. In
each group, mean age was 12 yr and 50% of them were male. The mean differences in
height, HSDS, IGF-1 and BA by Norditropin before and after 12 months were 8.8 cm,
0.5, 49 ng/ml and 2.8 yr, respectively. These measures by Samtropin were 9.1 cm, 
0.6, 133 ng/ml, and 1.7 yr, respectively without any significant difference. The 
mean of GV by Samtropin was 9.1 vs. 8.8 cm by Norditropin without significant
difference. Since the efficacy of Samtropin was found to be similar to
Norditropin after 12 months; we switched to use only Samtropin for the next
12 months. The mean differences in height, HSDS, GV and BA in 20 children between
months 12 and 24 were 7.0 cm, 1.6, 2.1 cm/yr and 1.0 yr, respectively
(P < 0.001). We also found a non-significant decrease in IGF-1 levels. No side
effects were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: We need to conduct a post marketing surveillance with a large sample
size in order to confirm our findings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Registration code number in the Iranian Registry of Clinical 
Trials (IRCT): IRCT1138901181414N11.

PMCID: PMC4304100
PMID: 25648850  [PubMed]


979. J Diabetes Res. 2014;2014:871439. doi: 10.1155/2014/871439. Epub 2014 Dec 31.

Novel KIF6 polymorphism increases susceptibility to type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
coronary heart disease in Han Chinese men.

Wu G(1), Li GB(1), Dai B(1), Zhang DQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Trials, The Fourth Hospital of Jilin University,
Dongfeng Street No. 2643, Changchun, Jilin 130011, China.

OBJECTIVES: The effect of the KIF6 polymorphism Trp719Arg on the risk of T2DM and
T2DM with CHD remains unclear.
METHODS: 946 unrelated subjects of Han Chinese origin were recruited, comprising 
346 controls, 312 T2DM, and 288 T2DM + CHD patients. Genotyping was performed by 
high-resolution melting curve analysis using real-time qPCR. The impact of the
variant on T2DM/T2DM + CHD and gene-sex interaction were evaluated by stepwise
multiple regression analysis.
RESULTS: The frequencies of the Trp719 allele in T2DM and T2DM + CHD patients
were similar to the control group, whereas significantly increased 719Arg allele 
frequencies were observed in male T2DM and T2DM + CHD patients compared with the 
corresponding control group. Further sex partition analysis revealed that only
male 719Arg allele carriers had approximately 3-fold and 5-fold higher risk of
T2DM and T2DM + CHD, respectively, than noncarriers. There was also a significant
association between carriers and higher TG and lower HDL-C levels.
CONCLUSION: The KIF6 719Arg allele may increase the risk of T2DM and T2DM + CHD
only in Han Chinese men by modulating lipid metabolism, especially with regard to
TG and HDL.

PMCID: PMC4297624
PMID: 25629058  [PubMed - in process]


980. J Lasers Med Sci. 2014 Winter;5(1):8-12.

308nm excimer laser in dermatology.

Mehraban S(1), Feily A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Jahrom University of Medical Sciences, Jahrom, Iran. (2)Department of
Dermatology, Jahrom University of Medical Sciences, Jahrom, Iran.

308nm xenon-chloride excimer laser, a novel mode of phototherapy, is an
ultraviolet B radiation system consisting of a noble gas and halide. The aim of
this systematic review was to investigate the literature and summarize all the
experiments, clinical trials and case reports on 308-nm excimer laser in
dermatological disorders. 308-nm excimer laser has currently a verified efficacy 
in treating skin conditions such as vitiligo, psoriasis, atopic dermatitis,
alopecia areata, allergic rhinitis, folliculitis, granuloma annulare, lichen
planus, mycosis fungoides, palmoplantar pustulosis, pityriasis alba, CD30+ lympho
proliferative disorder, leukoderma, prurigo nodularis, localized scleroderma and 
genital lichen sclerosus. Although the 308-nm excimer laser appears to act as a
promising treatment modality in dermatology, further large-scale studies should
be undertaken in order to fully affirm its safety profile considering the
potential risk, however minimal, of malignancy, it may impose.

PMCID: PMC4290518
PMID: 25606333  [PubMed]


981. J Oncobiomarkers. 2014;2(2). pii: 5.

Mtor-Fanconi Anemia DNA Damage Repair Pathway in Cancer.

Guo F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Experimental Hematology and Cancer Biology, Children's Hospital
Research Foundation, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.

mTOR is a serine/threonine kinase and plays a critical role in mammalian cell
growth, survival, and metabolism. mTOR is present in two cellular complexes:
mTORC1 and mTORC2. Dysregulation of the mTOR pathway has been related to
tumorigenesis, poor prognosis and/or chemotherapy resistance in a variety of
malignancies. Inhibition of mTORC1 by Rapamycin and its analogs has been explored
to treat a number of tumors. However, the effectiveness of patient response is
limited and not all patients respond. Second generation of mTOR inhibitors have
recently been developed to target mTOR kinase activity and to suppress both
mTORC1 and mTORC2. Dual mTORC1/mTORC2 inhibitors generally are more efficacious
in preclinical studies and clinical trials. We and others have recently found
that dual mTORC1/mTORC2 inhibitors sensitize T-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia
and rhabdomyosarcoma cells to DNA damaging agents by suppression of expression of
FANCD2 of the Fanconi anemia pathway, an important DNA repair mechanism that is
associated with drug resistance of multiple types of cancer. This review will
highlight mTOR and the Fanconi anemia pathway in cancer, with a particular
attention to our newly discovered connection between mTOR and the Fanconi anemia 
pathway.

PMCID: PMC4303082
PMID: 25621286  [PubMed]


982. Ochsner J. 2014 Winter;14(4):616-32.

Cardiovascular safety profile of currently available diabetic drugs.

Azimova K(1), San Juan Z(1), Mukherjee D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center,
Paul Foster School of Medicine, El Paso, TX.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and
mortality among patients with diabetes, underscoring the importance of choosing
drugs that do not increase cardiovascular risk and reduce the risk of
cardiovascular events. Since 2008, the US Food and Drug Administration has
recommended that new drugs for type 2 diabetes undergo clinical trials to
demonstrate cardiovascular safety in addition to glycemic benefit. In 2012, the
European Medicines Agency issued a similar recommendation.
METHODS: We searched the PubMed, Cochrane CENTRAL, EMBASE, and CINAHL databases
from inception through August 2013 and compiled and reviewed the existing data on
the cardiovascular safety profiles of currently available diabetic drugs.
RESULTS: While intensive glycemic control in diabetics has been consistently
shown to reduce the risk of microvascular complications, the data on
macrovascular risk reduction have not been as clear, and questions have been
raised about possible increases in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
CONCLUSION: Careful selection of drug therapy-paying particular attention to
cardiovascular safety-is important in optimizing diabetic therapy.

PMCID: PMC4295739
PMID: 25598727  [PubMed]


983. Oncoimmunology. 2014 Aug 3;3(8):e954467.

Targeting programmed cell death ligand 1 in osteosarcoma: an auto-commentary on
therapeutic potential.

Shen JK(1), Cote GM(2), Choy E(2), Hornicek FJ(1), Duan Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sarcoma Biology Laboratory; Center for Sarcoma and Connective Tissue Oncology;
Massachusetts General Hospital ; Boston, MA USA. (2)Division of Hematology and
Oncology; Massachusetts General Hospital ; Boston, MA USA.

Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PDL1) expression was recently shown to correlate 
with tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in a subset of osteosarcoma patients. 
Among clinical factors evaluated across human osteosarcoma samples, a pulmonary
origin of metastases correlated with high PDL1 expression and prominent TILs.
Considering that multiple agents targeting PD-1/PDL1 are under development,
targeting this immune checkpoint may be a novel immunotherapeutic route for
osteosarcoma in future clinical trials.

PMCID: PMC4292524 [Available on 2015-08-03]
PMID: 25610746  [PubMed]


984. Oncoscience. 2014 Jul 23;1(7):504-9. eCollection 2014.

The combinatorial complexity of cancer precision medicine.

Klauschen F(1), Andreeff M(2), Keilholz U(3), Dietel M(1), Stenzinger A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pathology, Charité University Hospital Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Leukemia, Division of Cancer Medicine, The University of Texas
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (3)Charité Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Charité University Hospital Berlin, Berlin, Germany. (4)Institute of
Pathology, University of Heidelberg Medical School, Heidelberg.

Precision medicine approaches have recently been developed that offer therapies
targeting mainly single genetic alterations in malignant tumors. However, next
generation sequencing studies have shown that tumors normally harbor multiple
genetic alterations, which could explain the so far limited successes of
personalized medicine, despite considerable benefits in certain cases.
Combination therapies may contribute to a solution, but will pose a major
challenge for clinical trials evaluating those therapies. As we discuss here,
reasons include the low abundance of most of the relevant mutations and
particularly the combinatorial complexity of possible combination therapies. Our 
report provides a systematic and quantitative account of the implications of
combinatorial complexity for cancer precision medicine and clinical trial design.
We also present an outlook on how systems biological approaches may be harnessed 
to contribute to a solution of the complexity challenge by predicting optimal
combination therapies for individual patients and how clinical trial design may
be adapted by combining and extending basket and umbrella design features.

PMCID: PMC4278319
PMID: 25594052  [PubMed]


985. Oncoscience. 2014 Mar 12;1(2):158-66. eCollection 2014.

Predictive biomarkers for dasatinib treatment in melanoma.

Eustace AJ(1), Kennedy S(2), Larkin AM(1), Mahgoub T(3), Tryfonopoulos D(3),
O'Driscoll L(4), Clynes M(1), Crown J(3), O'Donovan N(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Cellular Biotechnology, Dublin City University, Dublin 
9, Ireland. (2)Research Foundation, Royal Victoria Eye and Ear Foundation, Royal 
Victoria Eye and Ear Hospital. (3)National Institute for Cellular Biotechnology, 
Dublin City University, Dublin 9, Ireland ; Department of Medical Oncology, St
Vincent's University Hospital, Dublin 4, Ireland. (4)School of Pharmacy &
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.

Dasatinib has anti-proliferative and anti-invasive effects in melanoma cell
lines. However clinical trials have shown modest activity for dasatinib in
metastatic melanoma. Although dasatinib targets SRC kinase, neither expression
nor phosphorylation of SRC appears to predict response to dasatinib.
Identification of predictive biomarkers for dasatinib may facilitate selection of
melanoma patients who are more likely to respond to dasatinib. We correlated the 
anti-proliferative effects of dasatinib in 8 melanoma cell lines with expression 
of a previously identified 6-gene biomarker panel. We examined the relationship
between response to dasatinib and expression of each gene at both the mRNA and
protein level. Dasatinib inhibited growth in 3 of the 8 cell lines tested. mRNA
expression of the panel of 6 biomarkers did not correlate with response, whilst
elevated protein expression of ANXA1, CAV-1 and EphA2 correlated significantly
with response to dasatinib in the panel of cell lines. Expression of ANXA1, CAV-1
and EphA2 were analysed in 124 melanoma samples by immunohistochemistry. ANXA1
protein was detected in 81 % (97/120) of tumours, CAV-1 in 44 % (54/122) of
tumours and EphA2 in 74 % (90/121) of tumours. Thirty one % (35/113) of tumours
tested expressed all three markers and 19 % (21/112) had moderate or strong
expression of ANXA1, CAV-1 and EphA2. Seventeen percent (19/112) of melanoma
samples were positive for SRC kinase expression, combined with high expression of
ANXA1, CAV-1 and EphA2. This subgroup may represent a population of melanoma
patients who would be more likely to derive clinical benefit from dasatinib
treatment.

PMCID: PMC4278284
PMID: 25594008  [PubMed]


986. Oncoscience. 2014 Oct 22;1(10):614-23. eCollection 2014.

A framework for genomic biomarker actionability and its use in clinical decision 
making.

Vidwans SJ(1), Turski ML(1), Janku F(2), Garrido-Laguna I(3), Munoz J(4), Schwab 
R(5), Subbiah V(2), Rodon J(6), Kurzrock R(5).

Author information: 
(1)CollabRx Inc., San Francisco, California, USA. (2)Department of
Investigational Cancer Therapeutics - a Phase I Clinical Trials Program, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center Houston, Texas, USA. (3)Huntsman
Cancer Institute, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA. (4)Banner MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Gilbert, Arizona, USA. (5)Center for Personalized Cancer 
Therapy, Moores Cancer Center, University of California, San Diego, California,
USA. (6)Vall d'Hebron Institut d'Oncologia and Universitat Autonoma of Barcelona,
Barcelona, Spain.

The increasing scope and availability of genetic testing options for patients
suffering from cancer has raised questions about how to use results of molecular 
diagnostics to inform patient care. For some biomarkers (e.g. BRAF mutations in
melanoma), standards exist that outline treatments for individuals harboring
aberrations in the biomarker; however for the vast majority of genomic
abnormalities, few guidelines exist. Clinical decision making and the therapeutic
approach for a patient with a given cancer characterized by aberrations in
different genes may be aided by the use of a biomarker actionability framework
that provides levels of evidence regarding whether and how a molecular
abnormality can be considered a therapeutically relevant biomarker. A gene may be
considered theoretically actionable if it has a basis of actionability, such that
clinically available drugs can target a gene product that drives the cancer or is
differentially expressed in tumor versus normal elements. Herein, we discuss a
possible framework for developing guidelines for actionability, as they relate to
genomically-based cancer therapeutics.

PMCID: PMC4278279
PMID: 25593991  [PubMed]


987. Res Pharm Sci. 2014 Jan-Feb;9(1):59-67.

In vivo pharmacological profile of substituted (3-pyridyl)-2-phenylisoxazolidine 
analogues of nicotine as novel antinociceptives.

Sethi N(1), Bhatti R(1), Ishar MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bio-organic and Phytochemistry Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar 143005, India.

Nicotinic ligands have been studied as novel therapeutic interventions in pain
therapeutics since a long time. Several nicotinic agonists have been withdrawn
from later stages of clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or narrow
therapeutic window. These have been documented to act in the central nervous
system and produce a wide range of pharmacological effects, including memory
enhancing and analgesic actions, antianxiety, antidepressant and muscle
coordination. Taking cognizance of the wide pharmacological profile of nicotine
and its ligands, it was decided to evaluate some novel isoxazolidine analogues of
nicotine for their potential as analgesics, using animal models like Eddy's hot
plate and Tail immersion method. The compounds showed marked decrease in
hyperalgesic response as compared to pentazocine at a wide range of doses. They
were well tolerated as none of the compounds was found to have any seizure
potential or mortality even at the highest doses. Thus, these compounds can be
developed as potent antinociceptives with better safety profile than nicotine and
other currently available pain therapeutics.

PMCID: PMC4292182
PMID: 25598800  [PubMed]


988. Rev Cardiovasc Med. 2014;15(4):351-7.

Renal denervation: current status and future applications.

Gomez SI, Urbandt P, Beohar N, Santana O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Internal Medicine and Columbia University Division of Cardiology, 
Mount Sinai Heart Institute, Miami Beach, FL.

Despite the variety of antihypertensive agents that are available, resistant
hypertension remains a significant clinical problem and a substantial economic
burden. Over the past several years, renal sympathetic denervation has been
introduced as a potential therapeutic option for this clinical problem. It is a
catheter-based procedure that is showing promising results and appears to be
associated with minimal or low risk. Thus far, two completed clinical trials have
demonstrated excellent safety and encouraging outcomes. A review of these trials 
is the focus of this article, in addition to the analysis of ongoing studies, and
the possible future applications of this technique.

PMID: 25662928  [PubMed - in process]


989. Rev Cardiovasc Med. 2014;15(4):290-309.

The Potential Role of Anti-PCSK9 Monoclonal Antibodies in the Management of
Hypercholesterolemia.

Lepor NE, Contreras L, Desai C(1), Kereiakes DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center,
Los Angeles, CA; Westside Medical Associates of Los Angeles, Beverly Hills, CA.
(2)The Christ Hospital Heart and Vascular Center, The Lindner Research Center,
Cincinnati, OH.

Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is the leading cause of death and 
disability in developed nations, and it is rising rapidly in other parts of the
developing world. Levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) are
directly correlated with atherogenic risk, and statin-based therapy is the most
common management for these patients. However, many patients exhibit resistance
to and/or adverse effects from statin therapy, and there is a need for adjunctive
therapies or statin alternatives for these patients. The recently discovered
human protein proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) plays an
important role in LDL-C metabolism. PCSK9 promotes LDL receptor (LDL-R)
degradation with a consequent reduction in LDL-R density and an increase in LDL-C
levels. Consequently, PCSK9 inhibition to reduce LDL-C levels has become a
primary focus for drug development. Numerous clinical trials focusing on
monoclonal antibodies against PCSK9 have demonstrated efficacy equal to or
greater than statin therapy for lowering LDL-C levels. Long-term trials are
underway to assess safety, tolerability, and ability to reduce ASCVD.

PMID: 25662924  [PubMed - in process]


990. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2014;54(12):1197-9. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.54.1197.

Intravenous thrombolysis for acute ischemic stroke: past, present and future.

Hayakawa M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cerebrovascular Medicine, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular
Center.

The efficacy of intravenous thrombolysis using alteplase, a recombinant tissue
plasminogen activator (IV t-PA) within a 4.5-hour time window for acute ischemic 
stroke patients has been well established. However, a tight time window allows a 
minority of stroke patients to receive IV t-PA, and low recanalization rates of
large intracranial artery occlusions limit the efficacy of IV t-PA. To overcome
the limitations of IV t-PA, clinical trials regarding IV t-PA based on DWI-PWI
mismatch or DWI-FLAIR mismatch, next-generation agents of t-PA, dose modification
of alteplase, sonothrombolysis, and so on are going on worldwide. Shortening of
the time of door to treatment (needle or femoral puncture) plays a very important
role to enhance the efficacy of acute reperfusion therapy including IV t-PA and
acute stroke endovascular therapy, and as a consequence, it could contribute to
improve the entire stroke outcomes due to an increase of acute reperfusion
therapy-eligible patients.

PMID: 25672743  [PubMed - in process]


991. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2014;54(12):1178-80. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.54.1178.

Development of disease modifying drugs for dementia-focusing on anti-tau drugs-.

Soeda Y(1), Takashima A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Aging Neurobiology, Center for Development of Advanced Medicine 
for Dementia, National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology.

In an aging society, the number of people with dementia has increased. Since
Alzheimer's disease and a part of frontotemporal lober degeneration (FTLD-tau)
have abnormal tau pathology in brain, these are called Tauopathy. Previously
results showed that occurrence of abnormal tau has been involved in development
of cognitive dysfunction and neuronal loss indicating that tau-focused drug
(inhibitors of tau hyperphosphorylation, tau aggregation and so on) may be
valuable in therapy for Tauopathy. This study collated data of clinical trials
that evaluated tau-based drugs to help development of agent for dementia drugs in
future. We discovered a novel tau aggregation inhibitor, and elucidated the
inhibitory mechanism of the compound on tau aggregation. These results suggest
that tau aggregation is an important target for therapy of dementia.

PMID: 25672738  [PubMed - in process]


992. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2014;54(12):1171-3. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.54.1171.

Diagnosis and treatment of dementia: Overview.

Furukawa K(1), Ishiki A, Tomita N, Arai H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Institute of development, aging and 
cancer, Tohoku University.

The development of accurate diagnostic tests and treatment of dementia must be
important issues in an aging society. The quality of biomarkers for dementia have
dramatically improved recently and are classified into two categories, including 
(i) biochemical markers in biofluids and (ii) imaging using radiological
technologies. Positron emission tomography (PET) to detect amyloid β was first
developed in 2004 (1)). Since then, several amyloid PET tracers to detect senile 
plaques in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been published by many
investigators, including our group (2)). Some laboratories recently developed PET
tracers to detect tau pathologies in patients with AD (3)). Moreover, four drugs 
(donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine, and memantin), which modulate
neurotransmission in the brains of patients with AD are now used to treat AD;
however, none of them can cure the disease. Although several anti-amyloid β
compounds have been examined in clinical trials as potentially useful drugs, all 
of them have failed to show significant benefits so far. In contrast,
tau-targeted drugs have been developed and have entered clinical trials. We
expect strongly a therapeutic drug for dementia to be released in the near
future.

PMID: 25672736  [PubMed - in process]


993. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2014;54(12):1115-8. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.54.1115.

Recent progress in diagnosis and pathomechanism of inclusion body myositis.

Aoki M(1), Suzuki N, Kato M, Warita H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Tohoku University School of Medicine.

Sporadic inclusion body myositis (sIBM) is an intractable and progressive
skeletal muscle disease of unknown etiology and without effective treatment.
Muscle biopsy typically reveals endomysial inflammation, invasion of mononuclear 
cells into non-necrotic fibers and rimmed vacuoles, suggesting inflammation and
degeneration co-exist as part of the pathomechanism. We estimated the prevalence 
of sIBM in Japan is 1,000-1,500 in 2003 and an increase in the number of sIBM in 
Japan in the decade. TDP43 can be a whole mark of the muscle pathology of sIBM
patients. Anti-cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase 1A (cN1A) can be a diagnostic marker of 
sIBM. Elucidation of the pathomechanism of sIBM is the most important to therapy.
We'll also review the status of the therapeutics and clinical trials in sIBM.

PMID: 25672724  [PubMed - in process]


994. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2014;54(12):953-6. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.54.953.

Clinical diversity, diagnosis and treatment of hereditary amyloid neuropathy.

Sekijima Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biomedical Sciences, Shinshu University.

Hereditary amyloid neuropathy includes hereditary ATTR, hereditary AGel,
hereditary AApoAI, and hereditary Aβ2M amyloidosis. Among these diseases,
hereditary ATTR is the most common type of amyloidosis caused by mutation in the 
transthyretin (TTR) gene. Hereditary ATTR amyloidosis is a life-threatening,
multi-symptom, gain-of-toxic-function disease that may present with peripheral
neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, cardiomyopathy, ophthalmopathy, and/or
leptomeningeal amyloidosis. In addition to the clinical symptoms described above,
proven amyloid deposition in biopsy specimens and identification of
disease-causing mutations in the TTR gene are necessary to establish the
diagnosis. Deposition of amyloid in tissue can be demonstrated by Congo red
staining of biopsy materials. Liver transplantation has been shown to be an
effective therapeutic strategy for ameliorating hereditary ATTR amyloidosis,
however, large numbers of patients are not suitable transplant candidates because
of their age and/or advanced disease status. Recently, the clinical effects of
TTR tetramer stabilizers, tafamidis and diflunisal, were demonstrated in
randomised clinical trials, and tafamidis has been approved for the treatment of 
hereditary ATTR amyloidosis in European countries and in Japan. With the
availability of disease-modifying therapies, early diagnosis and therapy become
increasingly important in ATTR amyloidosis.

PMID: 25672679  [PubMed - in process]


995. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2014;54(12):950-2. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.54.950.

Diagnosis and care of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.

Nakagawa M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology, North Medical Center, Kyoto Prefectural University of
Medicine.

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is the most common form of inherited peripheral
neuropathy and the prevalence rate is about 10/100,000 population in Japan.
Next-generation sequencing techniques discovered more than 50 genes for CMT.
Genetic diagnosis of CMT with genetic counseling is critical to speculate the
prognosis, complications and therapeutic research development. Surgical therapy, 
rehabilitation, casting therapy, and weight control are useful to keep
health-related quality of life for CMT. Although the disease-modifying therapy
for CMT is not available now, new clinical trials to improve QOL are now on
going. CMT research groups, which consist of researchers and CMT patient
association, are organized in Japan with support of Grants-in-Aid from the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan. It is the most important to
listen to what afflicted patients may want to share with medical doctors.

PMID: 25672678  [PubMed - in process]


996. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2014;55(4):1429-35.

Peritumoral inflammatory reaction in colon cancer. Histological and
immunohistochemical study.

Mogoantă SŞ(1), Lungu C, Ilie C, Albu DF, Totolici B, NeamŢu C, MitruŢ P, Dogaru 
CA, Turculeanu A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of
Craiova, Romania; paulmitrut@yahoo.com.

Colorectal cancer is one of the most frequent malignancies with an increasing
incidence and prevalence. As in other malignancies, nor etiology, neither
pathogenesis of colorectal cancer are well known. The link between inflammation
and colorectal cancer has become a major concern in the past 20 years, since
several clinical trials have shown that patients with chronic inflammatory
intestinal diseases have a much higher risk of colorectal neoplasm development.
In our study, we analyzed peritumoral inflammatory reaction from histological and
immunohistochemical point of view, in 23 cases of stage III colon adenocarcinoma,
operated during 2014. The immunohistochemical techniques were used in order to
emphasize B-lymphocytes, T-lymphocytes, macrophages, mast cells and blood
vessels. In all cases, we have noted the involvement of inflammatory cells
present in peritumoral and tumoral stroma, in variable degrees, regardless the
differentiation of the neoplasm or other known histological feature. In
particular, the macrophages were the most numerous, especially in areas of
tumoral necrosis, but also present in the lumen of tumoral glands, or even within
tumoral cell islands. Mast cells appeared more abundant in the tumor stroma
around blood vessels and were absent in the areas of tumor necrosis, while
B-cells were almost absent. Tumor stroma showed a well-developed vascular
network, consisting mainly of small vessels that do not seem to correlate with
the intensity of the inflammatory reaction.

PMID: 25611277  [PubMed - in process]


997. Springerplus. 2014 Dec 15;3:740. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-740. eCollection 2014.

The effect size, study design, and development experience in commercially
sponsored studies for new drug applications in approved drugs.

Fukunaga S(1), Kusama M(1), Ono S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Regulatory Science, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 
113-0033 Japan.

Pharmaceutical companies incorporate different features into the trials for new
drug applications (NDAs) to render them efficient, making use of their
experience. The objective of this analysis was to examine the associations
between outcome and features related to study design and clinical development
experience in commercially sponsored clinical trials. We collected data of phase 
2 and phase 3 trials of all the drugs that obtained approval for depression,
schizophrenia, asthma, hypertension, and diabetes in Japan from 1970 to 2011. In 
total, 145 trials from 90 test drugs were eligible for our study. We calculated
the effect size, the standard mean of differences between test drug and
comparator therapeutic effects, as the objective variable for use in our
analysis. A linear mixed effect model with nested and crossed random effects was 
used in the analysis including variety of therapeutic area, test drugs and
clinical trials. The analysis showed that trial features including sample size,
subjective endpoints and active comparator of the same mode of action were
negatively associated with effect size. In addition, sponsors' domestic clinical 
development experience with similar drugs seemed to have a positive association, 
but prior development experience in foreign countries did not. The accumulation
of skills and knowledge within sponsors, and accumulated experience in domestic
professionals who implement clinical trials under study contracts with sponsors
would be of great importance for yielding clear outcomes. This study provides
additional evidence with respect to possible sizes and directions of the
influence of study design features that must be considered when planning and
implementing trials for new drug applications, and when retrospectively comparing
outcomes from trials with different designs and environments.

PMID: 25674470  [PubMed]


998. Thrombosis. 2014;2014:714218. doi: 10.1155/2014/714218. Epub 2014 Dec 30.

Advances in medical revascularisation treatments in acute ischemic stroke.

Asadi H(1), Yan B(1), Dowling R(1), Wong S(2), Mitchell P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Melbourne Brain Centre, Department of Medicine, Royal Melbourne Hospital,
University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, Australia. (2)Radiology Department,
Western Hospital, Footscray, VIC, Australia.

Urgent reperfusion of the ischaemic brain is the aim of stroke treatment and
there has been ongoing research to find a drug that can promote vessel
recanalisation more completely and with less side effects. In this review
article, the major studies which have validated the use and safety of tPA are
discussed. The safety and efficacy of other thrombolytic and anticoagulative
agents such as tenecteplase, desmoteplase, ancrod, tirofiban, abciximab,
eptifibatide, and argatroban are also reviewed. Tenecteplase and desmoteplase are
both plasminogen activators with higher fibrin affinity and longer half-life
compared to alteplase. They have shown greater reperfusion rates and improved
functional outcomes in preliminary studies. Argatroban is a direct thrombin
inhibitor used as an adjunct to intravenous tPA and showed higher rates of
complete recanalisation in the ARTTS study with further studies which are now
ongoing. Adjuvant thrombolysis techniques using transcranial ultrasound are also 
being investigated and have shown higher rates of complete recanalisation, for
example, in the CLOTBUST study. Overall, development in medical therapies for
stroke is important due to the ease of administration compared to endovascular
treatments, and the new treatments such as tenecteplase, desmoteplase, and
adjuvant sonothrombolysis are showing promising results and await further
large-scale clinical trials.

PMCID: PMC4293866
PMID: 25610642  [PubMed]


999. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2014;114(10):131-5.

[Alpha-lipoic acid in treatment of nervous system diseases].

[Article in Russian]

[No authors listed]

The results of experimental studies and clinical trials of alpha-lipoic acid
drugs are presented. Antioxidant and neuroprotective effects provide the efficacy
of these drugs in patients with different diseases of the central and peripheral 
nervous systems. Good tolerability and possibilities of using in combinations
with other drugs give grounds for a wide application of the drug in neurological 
practice.

PMID: 25632426  [PubMed - in process]


1000. Engagement in research: an innovative three-stage review of the
benefits for health-care performance.

Hanney S, Boaz A, Jones T, Soper B.
Southampton (UK): NIHR Journals Library; 2013 Oct.
Health Services and Delivery Research.

BACKGROUND: There is a widely held assumption that research engagement improves
health-care performance at various levels, but little direct empirical
evidence.
OBJECTIVES: To conduct a theoretically and empirically grounded synthesis to map 
and
explore plausible mechanisms through which research engagement might improve
health services performance. A review of the effects on patients of their
health-care practitioner's or institution's participation in
clinical trials was published after submission of the proposal for this
review. It identified only 13 relevant papers and, overall, suggested that
the evidence that research engagement improves health-care performance was
less strong than some thought. We aimed to meet the need for a wider
review.
METHODS: An hourglass review was developed, consisting of three stages: (1) a
planning
and mapping stage; (2) a focused review concentrating on the core question
of whether or not research engagement improves health care; and (3) a wider
(but less systematic) review of papers identified during the two earlier
stages. Studies were included in the focused review if the concept of
‘engagement in research’ was an input and
some measure of ‘performance’ an output. The search strategy
covered the period 1990 to March 2012. MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Cumulative
Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Web of Science and
other relevant databases were searched. A total of 10,239 papers were
identified through the database searches, and 159 from other sources. A
further relevance and quality check on 473 papers was undertaken, and
identified 33 papers for inclusion in the review. A standard meta-analysis
was not possible on the heterogeneous mix of papers in the focused review.
Therefore an explanatory matrix was developed to help characterise the
circumstances in which research engagement might improve health-care
performance and the mechanisms that might be at work, identifying two main
dimensions along which to categorise the studies: the degree of
intentionality and the scope of the
impact.
RESULTS: Of the 33 papers in the focused review, 28 were positive (of which six
were
positive/mixed) in relation to the question of whether or not research
engagement improves health-care performance. Five papers were negative (of
which two were negative/mixed). Seven out of 28 positive papers reported
some improvement in health outcomes. For the rest, the improved care took
the form of improved processes of care. Nine positive papers were at a
clinician level and 19 at an institutional level. The wider review
demonstrated, for example, how collaborative and action research can
encourage some progress along the pathway from research engagement towards
improved health-care performance. There is also evidence that organisations
in which the research function is fully integrated into the organisational
structure out-perform other organisations that pay less formal heed to
research and its outputs. The focused and wider reviews identified the
diversity in the mechanisms through which research engagement might improve
health care: there are many circumstances and mechanisms at work, more than
one mechanism is often operative, and the evidence available for each one is
limited.
LIMITATIONS: To address the complexities of this evidence synthesis of research
we needed
to spend significant time mapping the literature, and narrowed the research
question to make it feasible. We excluded many potentially relevant papers
(though we partially addressed this by conducting a wider additional
synthesis). Studies assessing the impact made on clinician behaviour by
small, locally conducted pieces of research could be difficult to interpret
without full knowledge of the context.
CONCLUSIONS: Drawing on the focused and wider reviews, it is suggested that when
clinicians and health-care organisations engage in research there is the
likelihood of a positive impact on health-care performance. Organisations
that have deliberately integrated the research function into organisational
structures demonstrate how research engagement can, among other factors,
contribute to improved health-care performance. Further explorations are
required of research networks and schemes to promote the engagement of
clinicians and managers in research. Detailed observational research
focusing on research engagement within organisations would build up an
understanding of mechanisms.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO: CRD42012001990.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Services and Delivery
Research programme.

PMID: 25642550  [PubMed]

